Connecticut enc_,.,. Petroleum Council A Division of AP! Steven Guveyan Executive Director 44 Capitol Avenue Suite 103-B Hartford, Connecticut 06106 Telephone 860-246-8846 Fax 860-246-6495 Email ctpetroleum@comcast.net www.api.org March 7, 2013 Testimony of Steven Guveyan, Connecticut Petroleum Council Opposition to HB-6533, Hydraulic Fracturing Legislation !'he Connecticut Petroleum Council---a trade association representing the oil and natural gas industry, including major oil companies, refiners, independent drillers and pipelines---opposes IB-6533, which prevents the treatment, dischar ,e, dis osal or storage in Connecticut of any ydraulic fracturing (I IF) waste. It also bars using or selling any item, product or material to which HF waste has been added. o commercial quantities of oil or natural gas arc known to exist in Connecticut, nor has there ever been any drilling here, so hydraulic fracturing---a technique used to extract oil and gas from shale and sandstone from the earth's crust, about I mile deep---does not take place here. This bill pertains to JIF wastes potentially being transported from the Marcellus Shale in New York fo treatment or recycling in Connccticut---and bans that activity. As you know. natural gas derived from the Marcellus Shale is the basis for Governor Malloy' s Com rchensive Energy Strategy. Reasons for Obiections Historically, the Connecticut General Assembly has encouraged manufacturers and sellers to take responsibility for their waste products (bottles, cans, newspapers, mattresses and electronic components such as TV's and computers), and urged or mandated recycling. This bill bans natural gas producers from recycling their waste here---a message completely at odds with what the regulated community has been asked to do in the ast. rhe oil and gas industry takes responsihilitr for its waste, but this bill Jrevents the industry from doing_ so in Connecticut. Com anies ma want to enter the husiness o átreatin or rec clin h draulic racturin waste or aste water in Connecticut i(and when high-volume hydraulic fracturing (!!VHF) hegins in Nev. Yorfs_,thereby o ening a new line of business and otentially bringing jobs here. This bill prohibits that, notwithstanding the governor's effort to bring new businesses here. an hills such as this one are a hack-door attem t to ban the h draulic racturin,. rocess itsel .¥ Similar bills in other Northeast states have been urged by those who want no natural ,as ex !oration or roduction or drilling whatsoever. If those bills were all adopted, there would be nowhere to treat HF waste, which means natural gas from the Marcellus Shale would be forever locked-in, unable to be produced, sold or consumed. An equal opportunity employer I/JEEP regulations governing the Underground Jniection Control Program already ban Class 1ft Underground lniection Wells, which means no oil or gas production waste products can be buried underground in Connecticut. (See: Sec. 22a-430-8) That rule, adopted in 1984, bans any type of underground injection well in the Class I, II, III or IV category. Similar rules have been adopted in the other five New England states. Conclusion Natural gas and oil derived from shale are true game-changers---anchoring the energy revolution taking place in America today. President Obama said in his 2012 State-of-the-Union Address that the U.S. had nearly a one-hundred year supply of natural gas, and that the country needs an all-out, all-of-the-above strategy that develops every available source of American energy. In 2013, in his State-of-the-Union speech, the President said that the natural gas boom has led to cleaner power and greater energy independence, and that his Administration will keep cutting red tape and speeding up new oil and gas permits. Shale gas currently is being produced in Pennsylvania, West Virginia and Ohio, and oil from shale in North Dakota is just now beginning to make its way into the Northeast. Hydraulic fracturing currently accounts for approximately 60% of the natural gas being produced in this country, and that is expected to increase to 70% in the future. These "shale plays" are putting downward pressure on natural gas prices nationwide, lowering our greenhouse gas emissions, improving our energy security by making us less reliant on foreign fuel, and reducing our trade deficit. The industry is adding many jobs---high paying jobs---which in turn improve the standard ofliving for many in the U.S., increase tax revenues to government and boost the economy. Let's not pass legislation that impedes this progress. Thank you for taking our testimony. Attachments: ---Boston Globe story, dated Feb. 1J1hon price impact of oil from shale ---Hartford Courant story dated Sept. 14th regarding Thomaston, CT-based advanced manufacturing company making hydraulic fracturing pumping equipment ---The New London Day story dated December 18th regarding a Stonington, CT-based company developing technology for treating waste water from hydraulic fracturing ---Four-page primer on hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling 