Testimony of America's Natural Gas Alliance before the Environment Committee Connecticut General Assembly Friday, March 22, 2013 HB 5335 Possession and Storage of Fracking By-products America's Natural Gas Alliance ("ANGA"), an association of 27 of North America's largest independent natural gas exploration and production companies, represents leading developers of shale gas, This clean, abundant and affordable energy source is transforming the energy landscape, improving the environment, revitalizing the domestic manufacturing sector and providing a much.needed boost to the U.S. economy. Connecticut uses more natural gas than any other energy source and generates far more of its electricity from natural gas than any other source. The advantages of natural gas for Connecticut are clearly a part of the Governor's proposed energy strategy for the state, which advocates expanding the infrastrncture that would bring the benefits of natural gas to many more consumers. ANGA applauds the Governor's focus on natural gas to bring its economic, environmental, and energy security advantages to the citizens of Connecticut. ANGA opposes HB 5335 because there are technical and policy problems with the proposed legislation that warrant further consideration. Our industry has an excellent record of safe and responsible development. Hydraulic fracturing has been used safely on more than 1 million wells in the United States -the safety of the practice has been recognized by Lisa Jackson, the former head of the Environmental Protection Agency and Ken Salazar, former Secretary of Interior. ANGA's companies are at the forefront developing and constantly improving our processes to minimize the amount of waste generated and to continue to ensure the environment is protected. Our nation is faced with an unprecedented opportunity that can advance our environment, our economy and our energy security. Natural gas companies understand that with this opportunity comes the responsibility to be dedicated stewards of omá land, air and water. ANGA therefore urges the Committee not to endorse HB 5335. We are pleased the Connecticut General Assembly is interested in assuring safe and responsible development of natural gas resources. 