SUPPORT FOR HB 5589 My name is Graham Barker and I am the Business Development Manager for Air & Gas Technologies (AGT), Inc; and a Connecticut resident. I am here today to provide testimony on House Bill 5589, AN ACT ESTABLISHING A PILOT PROGRAM FOR NATURAL GAS TRANSPORTATION. AGT is a supplier of turnkey CNG vehicle fueling stations.  We support this act and are willing and able to participate in this exciting program to wean our fleets off expensive foreign oil based fuels which contribute to pollution and national debt. AGT has worked with several Connecticut municipalities to develop the use of CNG as a vehicle fuel, by installing refueling stations for their vehicles.  These projects have been successful in reducing both mobile source contaminants and vehicle operating costs. Reductions in mobile source air emissions are becoming an important part of Federal, Regional and State air emissions policy; in fact and increasing the use of natural gas as a transportation fuel is integrated into Connecticut’s Comprehensive Strategy.  The use of natural gas vehicles in Connecticut has already resulted in significant reductions in air pollution. Natural gas vehicles reduce Greenhouse Gas Emissions between 20% – 29% depending upon vehicle type; and should a low carbon fuel program be adopted, CNG is the ideal fuel as only contains one (1) carbon atom vs. 14 for diesel and 8 for gasoline. Energy independence is also vital for this country, and the use of domestically produced natural gas provides this independence, along with economic development and job creation.   The US is only 5% of the world’s population, but it uses 25% of the world’s oil; most of which comes from unfriendly and unstable areas of the world. Over 95% of the natural gas used in the US is produced in North America, and current estimates have at least 115 years worth of supply, with more becoming available as shale and tar sand fields are developed. Oil prices are again hovering around $100 per barrel, and some experts say we could easily reach the 2008 level of $145 per barrel as the world economies start to revive.  Natural gas prices have been consistently dropping over the last few years, and all indications are that the price should stay flat for many years due to the high reserves. There is a significant fuel cost saving to be realized from the use of stable priced CNG when compared to the ever increasing and fluctuating costs of gasoline and diesel. Fuel costs are a significant portion of most municipalities’ budgets, and by utilizing natural gas this cost can be reduced and locked in for multiple years. Several other states are currently looking at or have programs in place to foster the use of domestic natural gas as a transportation fuel. In view of the above facts, I request your favorable action on this bill to allow us to expand on the work already done. Thank you for the opportunity to present this testimony, and I would welcome any questions you may have, my contact information is as follows: Office: 203 374 1795. e-mail: grahambarker@earthlink.net 