TESTIMONY	  OF NATIONAL	  FEDERATION	  OF	  INDEPENDENT	  BUSINESS	  (NFIB) ANDY 	  MARKOWSKI,	  CONNECTICUT	  STATE	  DIRECTOR REGARDING HB-..5308,	  AAC	  THE 	  REGULATION	  OF	  FRACKING	  WASTE;	  and SB-..237,	  AA	  PROHIBITING 	  THE	  STORAGE	  OR	  DISPOSAL	  OF	  FRACKING	  WASTE	  IN	  CONNECTICUT BEFORE THE ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE FEBRUARY	  28,	  2014 A	  non-..profit, non-..partisan organization founded	  in 1943, NFIB is Connecticut’s and	  the nation’s leading small.business association. In Connecticut, NFIB represents thousands of	  members and their employees. NFIB	  membership is scattered across the state and ranges from	  sophisticated high technology enterprises to “Main Street” small businesses to	  single-..person “Mom & Pop” shops that operate in traditional ways. NFIB’s mission is “To promote and protect	  the right of its members to	  own, operate, and	  grow their businesses.” On behalf of those small-..and	  independent-..job-..providers in Connecticut, I offer the following comments: Regarding	  HB-..5308	  and	  SB-..237,	  NFIB/Connecticutwould	  like	  to	  pointoutthathydraulic	  fracturing	  has	  been	  important	  to	  providing	  small	  businesses	  with	  the	  affordable	  and	  reliable	  energy	  they	  need	  to	  operate	  and	  grow. Yet,	  even	  in	  stateswherefracking	  hasbeen	  approved,	  projects are still be	  subject to	  review that can	  halt or	  delay	  critical	  energy projects for years. This	  kind	  of	  uncertainty,	  coupled	  with	  the	  interstate can	  stifle	  development	  and	  small	  businesses	  ability	  to	  plan	  future	  investment. The	  costof	  energyremainsoneofthetopconcernsofsmallbusinessowners,whorelyonaffordableenergyto	  operate	  their businesses	  successfully.	  According	  to	  the	  2012	  edition	  of	  NFIB’s	  Small	  BusinessProblemsandPriorities,	  “Cost	  ofNatural	  Gas,Propane,	  Gasoline,Diesel,	  Fuel	  Oil”	  ranked	  as	  the	  third-..most	  importantpriorityamongNFIB’smembers.	  Nearly	  35percentof	  respondents	  cited	  energy	  costs	  as	  a “critical” issue	  to	  their	  business. Additionally,according	  to NFIB’s	  Energy	  Consumption	  poll,	  energy	  costs	  are	  one	  of	  the	  top	  three	  business	  expenses	  in	  35	  percent	  of	  small	  businesses.	  Providing	  more	  affordable	  energywill	  directly	  help	  small	  businesses	  reduce	  the	  impact	  high	  energy	  prices	  have	  on	  their	  business. Therefore,	  NFIB/Connecticut suggests	  that any	  regulatory	  action	  Connecticut maytakeregardingfrackingwasteneeds	  tobereasonable,	  notmakethe	  state	  an	  economic outlierin	  regard	  to	  such	  apolicy,	  and	  not	  have	  thepossibleunintendedconsequencesof decreasing	  supply	  or	  reliability	  or	  increasing	  costs for	  the	  many	  small businesses and consumers	  that	  increasingly	  rely	  upon	  natural	  gas. Thank	  you	  for	  the	  opportunity	  to	  commentonbehalf	  of	  NFIB/Connecticut. 