Conn,v icut Steven Guveyan Executive Director ,-.. Pe -.leum Council 44 Capitol Avenue Suite 103-B Hartford, Connecticut 06106 Telephone 860-246-8846 Fax 860-246-6495 Email ctpetroleum@comcast.net www.api.org February 28, 2014 Testimony of the Connecticut Petroleum Council in Opposition to HB-5308 Hydraulic Fracturing/ Hazardous Waste Bill The Connecticut Petroleum Council---whose members include many companies that drill wells and hydraulically fracture for oil, natural gas and propane---strongly opposes HB-5308, which requires DEEP to regulate oil & gas wastes as hazardous waste. Oil & gas wastes, long categorized as "special wastes," are already regulated by a strict combination of federal/state rules; imposing an additional layer of hazardous waste rules is scientifically unjustified, prohibitively expensive, and unnecessarily burdensome. It is unlikely that oil and gas wastes would be treated in Connecticut because of the current moratorium on high-volume hydraulic fracturing in New York, our distance from the portion of upstate New York that contains the natural gas-rich Marcellus Shale, and the fact that much of the waste stream is now being treated on-site. Still, the possibility exists wastes could be treated here at a date far down the road, once the moratorium is lifted, so we want to address HB-5308. Reasons for Obiections ¥ EPA has already ruled that wastes from the exploration & production of oil and gas wells are not hazardous wastes, because they do not rise to that level. EPA says that it "issued a regulatory determination stating that control of E & P wastes under RCRA Subtitle regulations is not warranted." Instead, they are regulated as "special wastes," a category used for many common wastes such as cement kiln and mining wastes. Usurping EPA's technical experience on this topic---without any scientific findings to the contrary---is technically unjustifiable. No state has ever classified oil and gas wastes as hazardous wastes. See attachment on water (90%), sand (9.5%), and additives (0.5%) in the waste stream. ¥ All oil and gas "special wastes" are heavily regulated under both federal and state rules and every oil and natural gas well is individually permitted. "Special wastes" from those wells are not unregulated as some have suggested. See Attachment showing regulation under federal rules. Actual physical inspections of well sites take place in addition to paperwork requirements. Some permits may require up to 20 different plans ( e.g. waste water plan, storm water plan, spill prevention plan); many plans require approval by a Professional Engineer (P.E.) See Attachment showing 7 different waste-related permits required just in Pennsylvania. See also the Attachment on API industry-recommended practices, HF-1 (wells), HF-2 (water), HF-3 (surface impacts). ¥ If Connecticut passes this bill, once again we will have a two-tier regulatory system--.with differing federal and state rules---a major source of contention within the business community here. There is no need to go further than the already-stringent EPA rules. ¥ This bill discourages recycling and reuse---a longtime priority of the Environment Committee and the Connecticut General Assembly. In Pennsylvania, about 90% of the water used in HF is being recycled, thereby reducing the waste stream, truck traffic and operating costs. Oil & gas wastes, so long as they remain categorized as "special wastes," can be recycled---frequently on site---but if classified as hazardous waste, treatment options---including recycling---are quite limited. EPA says less than 4% of hazardous wastes are recycled, so it greatly benefits the environment to retain the "special waste" designation and continue current recycling activity. ¥ Treating common oil & gas wastes as hazardous wastes instead of special wastes will substantially increase the cost of treating them. Ultimately it is natural gas customers who pay for that. One major energy producer in NY calculated projected cost increases at an additional $5.5 million per well, and possibly as much as $15 million, if oil & gas wastes were re-categorized as hazardous waste in that state. ¥ Classification as a hazardous waste would eliminate and discourage new technologies related to re-use and recycling by requiring that all wastes be transported and disposed of in hazardous waste facilities. New technologies are constantly being evaluated and should be encouraged. Some of them will bring new jobs. ¥ This bill is prejudicial to the oil & gas industry and its customers because it singles out the waste stream from just that industry and excludes all others, even though the industry has an excellent track record managing its own waste stream. In analyzing waste in NY, DEC determined there were no chemical issues inconsistent with construction and demolition (C&D) disposal requirements and thresholds in both water-based and/or oil.based wastes. ¥ Finally: How can Connecticut reconcile passage oflast year's Comprehensive Energy Strategy---which relies heavily on natural gas from the Marcellus Shale (NY) to convert 280,000 customers to natural gas---with such severe_ restrictions on treating the wastes coming from that very fuel source? How can state policy advocate for enormous amounts of additional natural gas, yet treat the waste stream from that gas as hazardous waste when after extensive analysis the EPA itself has found no reason to do so? Hydraulic fracturing has made natural gas supply plentiful, helped reduce sulfur, PM and mercury emissions, reduced greenhouse gas emissions, and reduced foreign fuel imports. We recommend leaving the current system as is---because it works! An equal opportunity employer Thank you for considering our testimony. Please contact us if you have questions or comments. Stimulationál ,I r Table salt Laundry detergent Thickenerin cosmetics Washingsoda, detergent, soap Food additive Deodorant 0.5% CHEMICAL ADDITIVES 90% WATER I .5% D Compound Acids S11di11mCllloride Polyacry!amode Borate Salts Sollli11m/1'11tassiumCarbonate Gllltara!dehyde GuarGum Citric Acid ls11pr1111a110! Helps dissolve mineralsand initiate fissure in rock (pre-fracture) Allows a delayed breakdownof the gel polymer chains Minimizesthe friction between fluid and pipe Preventsscale deposits in the pipe Maintainsfluid viscosity as temperature increases Maintainseffectivenessof other components, such as crosslinkers Eliminatesbacteria in the water Thickensthe water to suspend the sand Preventsprecipitationof metal oxides Usedto increase the viscosity of the fracture fluid Swimmingpool cleaner Table salt Water treatment, soil conditioner Automotiveanti-freeze,deicing agent, household cleaners Laundry detergent, hand soap, cosmetics Washingsoda, detergent, soap, water softener, glass, ceramics Disinfectant,sterilizationof medical and dental equipment Thickenerin cosmetics, baked goods, ice cream, toothpaste,sauces Food additive; food and beverages; lemon juice Glasscleaner,antiperspirant,hair coloring After the wells on a pad are drilled, cased and cemented, a device perforates the horizontal part of the production pipe to make small holes in the casing, exposing the wellbore to the shale. Then a mixture of water 90 ercent), sand 9.5 ercent1and chemicals Q.5 percent) is pumped into the well under high pressure to create micro-fractures in theshale and free natural gas or oil. Sand keeQs the fractures oi;>en after the ressure is released. The chemicals are chiefly agents to reduce friction and prevent corrosion. Regulation ENERGYIN:JEPTH The Energy You Need. The Facts You Demand. FEDERAL STATUTES REGULATE EVERY STEP OF OSHA Worker Safety and Operations Inspection and Enforcement Authority CWA Water Resource Protection Inspection and Enforcement Authority OSHA Worker Safety and Operations Inspection and Enforcement Authority OSHA Worker Safety and Operations Chemical Disclosure Inspection and Enforcement Authority SUPERFUND Spill Reporting Clean Up Inspection and Enforcement Authority EPRCA Hazardous Substance Reporting Inspection and Enforcement Authority CWA Spill Prevention Control and Countermeasures Management Requirements Inspection and Enforcement Authority CWA Water Resource Protection and Discharge Requirements Reporting Inspection and Enforcement Authority SOWA Water Injection Requirements Inspection and Enforcement Authority Source http://energyindepth.org/wp-content/uploads/2009/03/Federal-Hydraulic-Fracturing-Process.pdf to popular m h federal regulations rovide a Polic Actá Resource ConseNation and Recove Act; broad regulatory foundation for energy development Emergenc Planning and Community Ri ht to Know in the United States. Key federal regulations governing Act; Endangered Species Act and the Occupational shale development include: Clean Water Act; Clean Air Safety and Health Act. Act; Safe Drinking Water Act; National Environmental Regulation Effective hydraulic fracturing regulation can only be management and disposal; Air emissions; Wildlife achieved at the state level as state regulations can impacts; Surface disturbance; Worker health and safety; be tailored to geological and local needs. Key state and Inspection and enforcement of day-to-day oil and regulations include: Review and approval of permits; Well gas operations. design, location and spacing; Drilling operations; Water For example, the following are just some of the pennits required in Well drilling permit (w/ well location plat, casing and cementing plan, PNDI for threatened or endangered species, landowner/water well owner notifications, coal owner or operator notificationand gas storage field owner notification) Water management plan for Marcellus Shale wells Proposedalternatemethod of casing, plugging, ventingor equipping a well Bond for Oil and Gas Well(s) (individual or blanket, various bond types allowed) Waiverof distance requirementsfrom spring, stream, body of water, or wetland (to put the well closer than 200 feet) Variancefrom distance restrictionfrom existing building or water supply (lo put the well closer than 100 feet) Proposedalternatemethodor material for casing, plugging, ventingor equipping a well Approvalfor alternative waste management practices Aru,rovalof a pit for control, handlin or storage of production flu Ids Use of alternate pit liner NPDESGP-1 for discharges from stripper oil wells Water Quality Management Permit for treatment facilities Alternativepit liners Inactivestatus Roadspreadlng rovalplan a Transferof well permit or registration Orphanwell classification Off-site solids di posal Residualwaste transfer stations and processing facilities Transportationof residual waste Roaduse permit -constructionof access to state roadway Roaduse bond (PennDOT or municipality) Surfaceuse permit (if in the Allegheny NationalForest) PASPGP-3 for pipelines crossing (if < 1 acre) or PASPGP-4 streams Water Obstruction -Encroachment-US Army Corps of Engineers Section 404 Joint Permit Dam permit for a centralized impoundmentdam for Marcellus Shale gas wells GP-11for non-road engine air emissions GP-05for natural gas compression facilities emissions Earth disturbance permit (if > 5 acres) Erosionand sedimentation control permit (if> 25 acres) NPDESstorm water for construction activities Water allocation (SRBC,DRBCor DEP for Ohio River basin) GP-3 for bank rehabilitation, bank protection, and gravel bar removal GP-4 for intake and outfall structures GP-5 for utility line stream crossings GP-7 for minor road crossings GP-8 for temporary road crossings GP-11 Maintenance, Testing, Repair, Rehabilitationor Replacement of Water Obstructions and Encroachments Standards hhlihJ=~e:¥ OnshoreOIi and Gas Production Operationsand Leases Several federal agencies, IsolatingPutentialSTD 65-2 Row Zones During wenConstructionincluding the Environmental Protection Agency, the Bureau of Land Management, and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, also cite API standards. Source: http://www.api.org/policy-and-issues/policy-items/hf/shale-answers Working through APl's ANSI-accredited standards pro_gram, the industry has adopted standards and practices for continuous i rovement, hundreds of which are referenced In state regulations thousands of times. Several federal agencies, Including the Environmental Protection Agency the Bureau of Land Management and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, also cite API standards. lndust also works closel with STRONGER, a non-roftt or anization that helps states formulate environmental regulations associated with oil and natural gas development. The FracFocus.org chemical disclosure registry provides Information on hydraulic fracturing fluid used in nearly 56,000 wells. Indus activi is sub'ect to a number of federal and state laws including the Safe Drinking Water Act. the Clean Water Act, the Clean Air Act and the National Environmental Policy Act. 