TESTIMONY OF STEPHEN GIBELLI, ASSISTANT GENERAL COUNSEL Energy and Technology Committee March 17, 2015 RE: Governor’s Bill No. 6838, AN ACT CONCERNING THE ENCOURAGEMENT OF LOCAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND ACCESS TO RESIDENTIAL RENEWABLE ENERGY Eversource Energy thanks the committee for the opportunity to provide testimony on the Governor’s Bill No. 6838. Eversource is committed to finding ways to support Connecticut’s energy goal of providing cheaper, cleaner and more reliable energy resources to the citizens of our state. As such we applaud the goals of this bill to further the development of renewable resources within our state. We do have some concerns about the cost impact that many of these new initiatives will have on our customers.  As such, first and foremost, we support a study to be conducted by the Public Utilities Regulatory Authority to determine the benefits and cost impact of any proposed public policy initiative prior to implementation. We believe that this is in the best interest of the state’s electric customers. With respect to the specific language in the bill itself, we are concerned that this bill requires us to enter into long term contracts without our consent or approval.  These contracts can negatively impact our balance sheet and our credit rating. Therefore, we do not support efforts to mandate a contract.  Furthermore, the bill requires the Authority to approve the agreement in an uncontested case.  Any proceeding which substantially impacts the company’s rights, such as this one has, should be made a contested proceeding.  In such a proceeding, all parties can submit Page 2 of 2 written testimony and cross examine regarding the merits of any such agreement. Thus, we believe a contested proceeding is in the best interests of our customers. Finally, while the bill allows for the recovery the utility’s reasonably incurred costs and fees through a reconciling mechanism, the particular mechanism is not specified. The bill should be specific that such costs are recoverable through the non-bypassable federally mandated congestion charge. Thank you. 