TESTIMONY OF ERIC J. BROWN CONNECTICUT BUSINESS & INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION before the ENERGY & TECHNOLOGY COMMITTEE March 17, 2015 Good afternoon.  My name is Eric Brown and I am an attorney with the Connecticut Business & Industry Association (“CBIA”) and director of its Environmental Policies Council.  CBIA’s mission is to work with our members and public officials to make Connecticut a more attractive location for business investment in order to grow jobs and economic opportunity for those who live here.  Our members include businesses from across the state of all sizes and from nearly every industry in Connecticut. CBIA appreciates this opportunity to provide comment requesting deletion of subsection 11(e) from S.B. 7009, An Act Concerning Electronic and Zero-Emission Vehicles. CBIA supports cost-effective incentives to encourage the expansion of electric vehicle charging stations.  However, close attention must be paid to the cost of these measures and the extent to which they are incentives rather than mandates.  Subsection 11(e) of this bill as written, fails this two part consideration, in our opinion. Subsection 11(e) requires that  “places of public accommodation having at least one hundred parking spaces to set aside at least one parking space for the exclusive use of electric vehicles. . . [and] such set aside parking space shall be equipped with a public or private electric vehicle charging station . . .” Does this mean 100 parking places for solely for public use, or would it include, for example, a business with 120 parking spaces for employees and 10 set aside for public / visitor use? What type of charging station is required?  According to the Rocky Mountain Institute (“RMI”), charging stations can run anywhere from a low of $3,500 for a slow charge installed in a parking garage to over $80,000 for a fast-charge unit in a parking lot.1 Most parking spots set aside for the public will likely be used for relatively short term parking.  For a charging station to deliver a meaningful charge for a short-term visitor, a “fast-charge” station would likely be required. Additionally, who pays for the maintenance?  (RMI estimates $300 -$2,000 per year). Who pays for the electricity used to charge the vehicle?  The property owner?  The owner of the car using the charging station? Or, as is often (if not always) the case today – ratepayers. CBIA cannot support this mandate and requests this committee to remove subsection 11(e) from the bill. Thank you for this opportunity to comment and for your consideration of our suggested revision. 1 See: http://blog.rmi.org/blog_2014_04_29_pulling_back_the_veil_on_ev_charging_station_costs 