The Connecticut Conference of Municipalities (CCM) is Connecticut’s statewide association of towns and cities and the voice of local government -your partners in governing Connecticut. Our members represent 156 towns and cities, representing over 95% of Connecticut’s population. We appreciate the opportunity to testify on bills of interest to towns and cities. HB 7009, “An Act Concerning Electric and Zero-Emission Vehicles” CCM opposes HB 7009. HB 7009 would, among other things, impose a “de facto mandate” by allowing the operators of any “zero.emission vehicle” to park free at any public metered parking space; and mandate all single family and multifamily residential buildings, and all commercial buildings, constructed after January 1, 2016 to include provisions for electric circuits capable of supporting electric vehicle charging equipment. Local officials have long-implemented public policies that not only promote – but, achieve cleaner, healthier communities throughout Connecticut. While CCM appreciates the intent of HB 7009 – there are concerns regarding the practical application of this proposal and the potential fiscal and administrative impact it would have on towns and cities. Specifically, HB 7009 would amend the State Building Code to require places of public accommodation having at least one hundred parking spaces to set aside at least one parking space for electric vehicles, which must be equipped with charging stations. CCM urges the Committee to determine what impacts this proposed mandate would have on local project costs, code implications, enforcement, and the effect of the overall completion of projects. HB 7009 would also give the State Building Inspector the authority to issue an official interpretation of the State Building Code for the purpose of streamlining municipal permitting requirements for the installation of charging stations in buildings. While clarification and guidance are important, CCM is concerned that this proposal would usurp local officials’ critical feedback and compromise the municipal process.  CCM urges the Committee to hold HB 7009 until further analysis is conducted, and the Committee can ensure local officials’ concerns --as the practitioners in the field championing cleaner environments – are addressed. If you have any questions, please contact Alexandra Beaudoin, Legislative Analyst, at abeaudoin@ccm-ct.org or (203) 498-3000. 