DEPARTMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES 165 Capitol .¥lláe1111e.1-lar(/qrd. C'T 06106 House Bill 5618 An Act Requiring the Development of a Carbon Footprint Methodology to Analyze State Procurement Contracts Testimony of Commissioner Melody A. Currey Government Administration & Elections Committee March 16, 2016 The Department of Administrative Services (DAS) is opposed to House Bill 5618 "An Act Requiring the Development of .a Carbon Footprint _Methodology to Analyze State Procurement Contracts" as currently drafted. House Bill 5618 directs DAS, in consultation with the Department of E:r~_ergy and Environmental Protection and other agencies or entities selected by DAS, to develop a carbon footprint methodology, focusing on transportation-related environmental impact, that can be used to analyze individual state procurement contracts. It also requires DAS to report to the General Assembly on or before January 1, 2017 on the -carbon footprint methodology it is 'to develop and on any recommendations for legislation necessary to implement such methodology for state procurement contracts. DAS does not have the expertise required to develop a carbon footprint methodology. _Moreover, DAS does not have the in-depth knowledge of the contracts entered into by other contracting agencies, nor does it have authority over other contracting agencies, necessary to develop a methodology to be implemented for all state contr_acts. In 2013, DAS was directed to study the feasibility of including carbon footprint data as a factor in the award of state contracts, purnuant to Section 73 of P.A. 13-247. In response to that directive, DAS submitted to the Governor and GAE Committee a Report on Carbon Footprint Data as Factors in Awarding State Contracts in Februaryá1, 2014. In this report, DAS identified a number of obstacles to including carbon footprint-data as a factor in the award of state contracts, including the significant problem that there is no state statutory_ or-regulatory definition of II carbon footprint;" and therefore no standard definition of "carbon footprint data", or standard methodology for calculating a 11 carbon footprint." /!ffinuative Action/Equal Opportunily Employer Many of the various legal, operational, and fiscal issues identified by DAS in the report are outside of DAS's scope. All of the identified challenges must be addressed before a carbon footprint methodology can be developed, much less implemented. While DAS, as one among many contracting agencies, is willing to participate in further discussions on this issue, DAS does not have the expertise or resources to lead this study. Thank you for allowing us to provide comment. 