Testimony of George D'Angelo In Opposition to SB 3-An Act Concerning the Licensing of New and Used Car Dealers Transportation Public Hearing Legislative Office Building, adfacd, Connecticut March 2, 2016 Good Afternoon, Senator Maynard, Representative Guerrera, Senator Boucher, Representative O Dea, and members of the Transportation Committee. My name is George D'Angelo. I am the owner and General Manager of Kia of Stamford. I am here today to speak in opposition to SB 3, An Act Concerning the Licensing of New and Used Car Dealers. I have three areas of concern to this proposed bill. 1) Dealers in Connecticut are invested in creating a fair pricing system. However, Tesla would like their own-unfair playing field. 2) Supporting local dealers means local good paying jobs stay here, not online and not in California. 3) Only dealers advocate for the consumer against manufacturers during recalls Lawmakers need to consider the locally owned dealerships when you consider this bill. More specifically the jobs we create and our involvement with our local communities. The locally owned dealers in Connecticut provide cash and in-kind contributions to local charitable causes. They support local businesses such as newspapers, printers and restaurants. Plus, employees contribute countless hours of their time serving on local boards and commissions, and helping non-profit organizations, schools, fire departments and youth sports. All over the stale you are able to find dealerships with annual contributions to charities well over $10,000. This is a huge deal to local communities and charities. A few examples of the organizations Connecticut dealerships support are: the Woodbury Volunteer Firefighters, the Community Foundation of Greater New Britain, Rockville General Hospital, Project Northeast Food Bank, Connecticut River Museum, and Sacred Heart Academy. The dealers and their employees support local organizations because they live and work in their communities and want to give back. Dealerships throughout Connecticut, offer good, high paying jobs to over 14,000 employees at 270 new car dealers. They employ mechanics, sales staff, front office staff, marketing staff, financial staff, community relations staff, and human resource people. The employees are offered benefits, good salaries, and job training. The argument that when a person buys a Tesla out of state they are not paying Connecticut sales tax is simply not true. That Connecticut consumer will pay taxes here in Connecticut. The dealerships pay sales tax, corporate taxes, payroll taxes and local property taxes. All this money goes to our municipal and state governments. I urge you to vote against this harmful bill. There is no need for it. It will hurt existing jobs and businesses. Thank you for your time. 