Testimony of Peter Thierry In Opposition to SB 3-An Act Concerning the Licensing of New and Used Car Dealers Transportation Public Hearing Legislative Office Building, Hartford, Connecticut March 2, 2016 Good Afternoon, Senator Maynard, Representative Guerrera, Senator Boucher, Representative O'Dea, and nie1nbers of the Tfa11sportatfoii C0mmiffee.My name is Petei'Thiefry. la1llthe Slfop Foreman at Crowley Chrysler in Bristol. I live in Harwinton. I am here today to speak in opposition to SB 3, An Act Concerning the Licensing of New and Used Car Dealers. I have worked the past 43 years at Crowley Auto Group. This is a good paying, high skilled job. I, along with the other mechanics at Crowley, am trained by the manufacturer to work on the cars we sell, this includes electric vehicles. I have had promotions and raises over the years. I am offered health benefits, vacation time, Family and Medical Leave, worker's compensation, and job training. I enjoy my job and cannot support an idea that would damage it. Our customers know when they buy a car from Crowley they will be able to have it serviced by one of the mechanics at the dealership. This begins the relationship with the customer. They know where their car is being serviced and by whom. They may call the service line and speak to the person working on their car. Our customers also know that if there is a recall on a part they may bring the car to the dealership and we will be able to assist them in the recall. We are working with them to have the recall taken care of in the most efficient way possible. We also work on car issues that arise and are covered by the Warranty. We are the go between for a customer and the manufacturer. The customer does not need to talk to the manufacturer; we at the dealership do that for them. The dealerships have a strong incentive to complete the repair work and keep their local customers happy. Tesla as a manufacturer will not have the same incentive. If Tesla opens up a store in Connecticut, they will outsource their repairs, recalls and all warranty work. Repairs will not be done in the store where the vehicle was purchased. There will be a conflict of interest with recall work on a Tesla. There is no third party making sure the customer is having the work done that is necessary for their car. We protect the interest of our customers by getting them the parts they need or making loaners available to them while manufacturers figure out the fix for the vehicles. SB 3 will not all9w for additional jobs in our current franchise system which is a shame. If Tesla chose to work within the franchise system in Cormecticut, additional jobs would be added. Additional mechanics would be hired and those ofus that are at the dealership would be trained to work on that car. The mechanics at the dealerships across Connecticut continue to service local customers. Many customers are repeat customers at Crowley. As a mechanic we are proud of the work we do. The cars that we are working on belong to our neighbors. There is no reason to outsource car repairs to other states where they will see the advantages of the increased number of jobs and taxes. I urge you not to support SB 3. This is a bill that will damage a sector of Connecticut businesses ---~oLno.reason._Teslajs_able_to_selliu.Connecticut now and...should do so under the cu1Tent laws tha,~t _____ _ protect the consumers. This is a bill that will do a great deal of damage. Thank you for your time. 