Testimony of Quincy Smith In Opposition to SB 3-An Act Concerning the Licensing of New and Used Car Dealers Transportation Public Hearing Legislative Office Building, Hartford, Connecticut March 2, 2016 Good Afternoon, Senator Maynard, Representative Guerrera, Senator Boucher, Representative 0 Dea, and members of the Transportation Committee. My name is Quincy Smith. I am a Customer Sales Representative at A-1 Toyota of New Haven. I am here today to speak in opposition to SB 3, An Act Concerning the Licensing of New and Used Car Dealers. I have worked at A-1 Toyota of New Haven for the past 12 years. One of my career highlights was A-1 Toyota winning the Connecticut Revolutionary Dealer Award that recognizes automobile dealers who sold or leased the highest number of electric vehicles {EVs) -including plug-in hybrids -from February 1-July 31, 2014. It is exciting to be recognized for an award. We are competing on price and service with every other Toyota dealer in Connecticut so this award is a big deal. The consumers benefit from a franchise system because everyone is working within Connecticut's laws however; dealers are competing with each other for employees and customers through what they offer .. This award also demonstrates that dealerships are selling EVs. Most of the manufacturers have an EV. We have the inventory and are just as excited to sell an EV as we are to sell a conventional vehicle to our customers. It is insulting that Tesla states my co-workers, here and at other dealerships, cannot or will not sell EVs. We continue to sell EVs and perform repairs and general maintenance on all the vehicles we sell. A-1 Toyota does repair and service work right at the dealership. We have well paid mechanics, some that have been with us for many years. They are offered health benefits and there is career advancement available. Customers may speak directly to the mechanics to find out what the issue is with their car and how it may be resolved. Our service representatives also work with the customers when there is a recall. We are the go between with the manufacturer. Tesla will not have local repair shops. They will outsource the work, and I am sure it will not be done in Connecticut. Tesla has the option of franchising, however they chose not to. Therefore, extra mechanics will not be hired. Customers loose as well, since they have no idea who is working on their car. I request that you oppose SB 3. It will hurt customers and workers, and the plain truth is there is no need to make a different law when the ones here in Connecticut are working just fine. Thank you for your time. 