TESTIMONY OF RODDY DIOTALEVI UIL HOLDINGS CORPORATION Regarding Raised Senate Bill 336 AN ACT CONCERNING COMMUNITY SHARED SOLAR Before the Energy and Technology Committee Legislative Office Building March 6, 2018 Good afternoon Senators Winfield and Formica, Representatives Reed and Ackert and members of the Energy and Technology Committee. My name is Roddy Diotalevi and I am the Senior Director of Sales and External Relations for UIL Holdings Corporation (UIL), the parent company for The United Illuminating Company (UI), The Southern Connecticut Gas Company (SCG), and Connecticut Natural Gas Corporation (CNG) ), and a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of Avangrid, Inc. I thank you for this opportunity to offer this testimony on Raised Senate Bill 336, AN ACT CONCERNING COMMUNITY SHARED SOLAR. UI fully supports Connecticut’s clean energy and climate change goals and is committed to help the State meet them. However, we respectfully oppose any expansion of the Shared Clean Energy pilot program that was established by Public Act 15-113, An Act Establishing a Shared Clean Energy Facility Pilot Program, and as amended by Public Act 16-116, An Act Concerning the Shared Clean Energy Facility Pilot Program until the success of that program can be assessed. In June of 2017, Connecticut’s Department of Energy and Environmental Protection (DEEP) selected three proposals to participate in a new shared clean energy facilities pilot program. The cost per kilowatt-hour of all three projects average more than $0.16/KWh while large scale renewable costs have dipped below $0.09/KWh according to DEEP’s own data included in the Connecticut Comprehensive Energy Strategy and presented before this Committee. These selected projects have been granted regulatory approval from the Public Utilities Regulatory Authority (PURA) in Docket 17-06-28 and most likely slated to be built by the developers. UI shares the OCC and DEEP’s concerns that none of these projects require any significant buy-in or commitment on the part of the subscribers for the billing credit they will receive. UI believes that it would be prudent to wait until a report on the pilot is filed at the end of the three year program (on or before January 1, 2019) to analyze its success before recommending that an expansion to the Community Shared Solar program is warranted. UI welcomes the opportunity to work with policy makers and others to be an enabler, not an impediment, in establishing a framework that meets evolving customer expectations regarding the development of clean energy facilities while balancing cost and system impacts. I thank you for the opportunity to offer these comments and I will try to answer any questions you may have. You may also contact me at 203-499-3632 or reach out to Albert Carbone, UIL’s Manager of State Government Relations at 203-671-4421. 