cid:image004.png@01CCB0DB.174FE4A0Connecticut Department of ENERGY &ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION STATE OF CONNECTICUT DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Public Hearing – March 6, 2018 Energy and Technology Committee Testimony Submitted and Presented by Commissioner Robert J. Klee Thank you for the opportunity to present testimony regarding Senate Bill No. 332, Senate Bill No. 336, House Bill No. 5350, and House Bill No. 5348. Senate Bill No. 332 The Department of Energy and Environmental Protection (DEEP) opposes this bill. The 2014 Integrated Resources Plan (IRP) highlighted the constraints in regional natural gas infrastructure, resulting spikes in prices during times of peak demand, and potential grid reliability issues. Public Act 15-107 was intended to address this issue, in part by providing authority for DEEP to procure natural gas infrastructure. While there are no immediate plans to procure natural gas infrastructure after the procurement attempted in 2016 demonstrated a lack of regional commitment, it is short-sighted to eliminate this authority, as the underlying issues of natural gas infrastructure constraints, price volatility, and potential grid reliability impacts persist. Senate Bill No. 336 and House Bill No. 5350 DEEP supports the concept of Shared Clean Energy. As envisioned by S.B. 9 An Act Concerning Connecticut’s Energy Future, shared solar projects should be allowed to participate in the Low and Zero Emissions Renewable Energy Tariff auctions. This will allow these projects to compete alongside similarly sized projects that serve commercial and industrial customers, municipalities, state agencies, and agricultural customers. House Bill No. 5348 This bill states that thermal energy generated by biodiesel should count as an eligible resource in the state’s electric Renewable Portfolio Standard (RPS). If the technologies contemplated in this bill produce electricity, they could potentially fall under existing definition for Class I for “low emission advanced renewable energy conversion technologies” or “thermal electric direct energy conversion from a certified Class I renewable energy resource.” If, however, the bill contemplates the inclusion of thermal energy which does not generate electricity as a newly eligible resource, this would be inconsistent with the policy goals of the RPS. The RPS is paid for by electric ratepayers and only compensates for electric generation of an eligible source. DEEP would welcome the opportunity to answer any questions. Please contact Lee Sawyer, DEEP’s Legislative Liaison, at 860.424.3332 or Lee.Sawyer@ct.gov. 1 