)
March 14, 2018 TESTIMONY OF LESLIE ANDERSON President and CEO of the Propane Gas Association of New England BEFORE THE CONNECTICUT GENERAL ASSEMBLY JOINT COMMITTEE ON ENVIRONMENT In Opposition of HB 5363 An Act Concerning A Carbon Price on Fossil Fuels Sold in Connecticut The Propane Gas Association of New England (PGANE) is pleased to have the opportunity to offer its comments on HB 5363 An Act Concerning A Carbon Price on Fossil Fuels Sold in Connecticut. The Propane Gas Association of New England is a regional trade association representing over 800 members of the propane industry in the 6 New England States. We exist to serve the propane industry by promoting safety, education and public awareness of the uses of propane. Our membership includes the nation's largest propane companies and many small companies who are often family owned and operated, many for several generations. PGANE represents the 101 Connecticut based member companies of our organization who sell propane to nearly 200,000 Connecticut consumers.  Our organization and the more than 2,500 employees that work for us, strongly oppose HB 5363. Propane should not be included in this bill because it is a bi-product. Most people don’t realize that propane is actually captured when natural gas is processed.  It can either be burned off, or it can be collected and used to offset another energy source. Reuse of beneficial waste or bi-product is in line with the EPA and CT goals to reduce, reuse, and recycle. Because propane will always exist as long as natural gas is produced, it’s use should be encouraged in CT and it should not be subject to tax. Propane should also be a key component of the state ‘s energy security strategy. Propane generators are used by residents during winter storms, during hospitals during power outages, and during floods and hurricanes to feed first responders and power emergency equipment. Propane small businesses support local communities in Connecticut. Our energy costs are already the highest in the nation and a carbon tax would have the greatest negative impact on those who can least afford it, such as those with limited or fixed incomes. In fact, it could accelerate the migration of citizens to other lower cost states, something Connecticut is already working hard to try to avoid. Our seniors and working families should not have to choose between heating their homes and buying food and medicine! Propane is an EPA certified alternative energy and we should not be taxing this green energy.  Increasing the use of higher efficiency appliances has already resulted in consumption being reduced by 40-50% over the past 15 years. Encouraging more high efficiency replacements is much more effective at reducing CO2 than a tax. This bill only takes effect if MA and RI enact a carbon tax also, but it does not consider NY. Many fuel companies can cross over the border from NY and deliver fuel in CT at a significant price advantage over CT companies. Another problem with this bill is the tax escalation. The fee doubles by year three and creation of a large pot of carbon tax money will just be raided by future legislatures if past behavior is any indication of future behavior. I urge the committee to vote against this bill. Thank you for the opportunity to comment on HB 5363. Information about Clean Green Propane Energy Propane is an Environmental Protection Agency designated certified clean fuel and can contribute in many ways to reducing pollution.  Propane is actually a bi-product that is left over when natural gas and oil are collected and processed. Using propane reduces greenhouse gas emissions that would otherwise be produced if propane was simply burned off at the refinery or processing plant.  Propane is a non-toxic gas that does not contain the greenhouse gas methane like natural gas. Propane’s molecular structure has low carbon content compared to electricity. Propane is an essential energy that can be used for: space heating, water heating, cooking, clothes drying, fireplaces, and standby generators.  Propane cooking equipment produces 30% fewer carbon emissions than electric units. Tankless propane water heaters produce nearly 40% fewer carbon emissions than electric storage tanks. Propane dryers heat faster than electric models, reducing energy use and produce up to 2,000 pounds less carbon emissions than electric dryers over the life of the unit. Propane is also the fuel that feeds first responders during emergencies and propane generators keep the lights on at homes and hospitals when back up power is needed due to electrical and other energy interruptions. 