Testimony Against HB#5363 Good Afternoon, my name is Richard Glownia. I live in Bristol and work for JAD Associates as a Manufacturer’s Representative, serving the entire state of Connecticut. I’d like to thank you for the opportunity to speak against House Bill #5363, An Act Establishing A Carbon Price For Fossil Fuels Sold In CT. This tax has several far reaching implications! The trickledown effect this tax will impose will be astronomical to say the least.  Consumers will see an increase in all goods and services due to the higher cost to operate delivery vehicles, service vehicles and the cost to maintain heat in buildings, just to mention a few. If you are looking for an excuse for corporations to leave for greener pastures, this is it! It will also cause more individuals to leave the State of CT. Talented tax paying individuals! I did an analysis of my own day to day activities, just to show you the impact. In 2017 I purchased 1,296 gallons of gasoline directly attributed to business mileage. In year one this will cost me an additional $171.97 in taxes. My wife and I also purchased approximately 780 additional gallons for personal use, adding another $103.51 in tax burden. Looking at my heating bills, I purchased 827 gallons of fuel to heat my home and make hot water. In year one that will cost me $136.86. So my total year one direct tax implication will be $412.34! That is just Year One. If we extend that out at and look at year five the direct tax implication will be $1,036.24. With no sunset clause in this bill, at what year will I be totally broke? Will I ever be able to retire? Not in this state, that is for sure. In addition to all of these direct taxes, how much more will I be paying for food, and other basic living expenses? Because all of these items must see an increase due directly to this bill. And we haven’t even looked at the much talked about tolls! Based on information that has been discussed and publicized, my average daily toll cost will be $42.00. Extended over 235 working days that equates to another $9,870.00 in taxes. Again, that is just to perform my day to day work activities. I for one know that it will cause me to exit the highways and take the city streets. Can they handle the additional volume? I don’t think so. And so now, it is my leisure time. Sure I can now go to any State Park, and not have to pay a parking fee. But it’s going to cost me just to drive there and back. For example, a trip to Rocky Neck State Park down route 9 will probably cost me about $14.00 round trip in tolls. Tourism in the state will take a huge hit! In closing I will tell you that the increase in taxes is having a very negative effect on people wanting to live in CT. Many are leaving on a daily basis for warmer climates, tax friendly states, where not only are the taxes lower, but so is the cost of living. Whoever coined the phrase “Tax is Theft” probably once lived in CT. I cannot urge you enough to send this bill packing and NEVER see the light of day again. Thank you for your time. 