March 14, 2018 To: Members of the Connecticut House Environment Committee From: Americans for Tax Reform Re: House Bill 5363 (Carbon Tax Legislation) Dear Representative, On behalf of Americans for Tax Reform (ATR) and our supporters across Connecticut, I urge you to reject House Bill 5363, legislation that would impose a statewide carbon tax. After being hit with the two largest state tax increases in history over the last eight years, along with 20 federal Obamacare tax hikes, the last thing your constituents need is to have lawmakers in Hartford pile on with yet another income-reducing, job-killing tax increase at the state level, which is what HB 5363 seeks to impose. Enactment of a carbon tax, a regressive tax that would disproportionately harm low and middle-income households, would exacerbate the exodus of individuals, families, and employers from the Nutmeg State. Your counterparts in the Washington State legislature recently rejected a carbon tax due to the fact that it would be difficult to administer and hit the most vulnerable households the hardest. The same would be true of a carbon tax in Connecticut. When the matter was put to the public in that state, Washington voters rejected a carbon tax by a 20-point margin. HB 5363, if enacted, would make it more expensive for families across Connecticut to weather blizzards like the one that has just hit the region. Higher energy costs brought on by a carbon tax will squeeze out other household budget priorities, while having no impact on global temperature. It’s no secret that Connecticut has an incredibly anti-competitive tax and regulatory climate. A carbon tax will only make matters worse, and send the wrong message about Connecticut to site selectors, investors, and job creators that the state needs to attract. As such, I urge you to protect Connecticut taxpayers by voting NO on HB 5363. If ATR can be of assistance, don’t hesitate to contact me or Patrick Gleason, ATR’s director of state affairs, at pgleason@atr.org or 202-785-0266. Sincerely, Grover G. Norquist President Americans for Tax Reform 