Hello my name is Hunter Tweed. I work for Arbor Energy, LLC located in Cheshire as the President. I live in Simsbury. Thank you for the opportunity to testify in opposition to H.B. No. 5363, AN ACT ESTABLISHING A CARBON PRICE FOR FOSSIL FUELS SOLD IN CONNECTICUT. As the president of Arbor Energy, it is my job to foster an environment where a group of people can provide the best possible value and experience in home heating. Deliverable fuels are by far the most efficient and reliable form of heating a home. I representing my company, but also my generation.  I am a millennial. I care about my environment. I want to make this world a better place.  I want what I do every day to matter. One of the reasons I have been entrusted to run a company is my ability to both care about the big picture and simultaneously develop a realistic plan for how to accomplish a stretch goal. Reducing our state’s carbon footprint is a great goal. However, it is not a realistic goal if we tax our residents so heavily that they cannot afford to live, or decide to live elsewhere.  It is also not realistic to expect that by taxing a viable energy source, alternative energy will make quick enough technological advancements to supplement this energy.  We need to have a realistic plan for how we will accomplish BOTH carbon emissions reduction AND affordable, reliable energy. This tax will do very little to affect climate change.  Out of all the states in America, Connecticut is the 40th largest carbon producer, emitting only .65% of the nation’s emissions.  According to a U.S. News & World Report article, even if the U.S. completely stopped emitting all CO2, it would reduce world temperatures by only 0.08 degrees C by the year 2050. That's because China and India will dominate global carbon emissions for the next century, and there's little the U.S., let alone Connecticut, can do to affect this. Besides CT is already doing its job in reducing its carbon footprint. Its carbon emissions of 35 million metric tons is actually a decrease of 18.4% from a decade earlier.  We're already reducing our CO2 even without a carbon tax. Instead of taxing the most reliable, most efficient fuels so heavily that our state’s residents will flee to neighboring states in even larger supply, our industry has an answer on how we can both continue with efficient, reliable, and affordable energy and decrease carbon. Our industry’s answer is BioHeat.  Heating oil can be, and is currently, mixed with renewable forms of biofuel to produce BioHeat. On a lifecycle basis, at a 2% BioHeat blend and a 15PPM sulfur content, our fuel is cleaner that natural gas.  If you increase the biofuel content in heating oil to 60%, our fuel is actually carbon neutral! Currently the technology capable of burning a fuel that is 60% biofuel does not exist, but we are working on it and in the coming years it will be within our reach! This is a realistic goal that accomplishes the goal of reducing Connecticut’s carbon emissions. We need your help to accomplish this. If you continue to tax our fuels and our customers so much that they leave the state or can barely afford to heat their homes, we will not have enough resources to invest in this technology. I would ask today that you please consider abandoning the carbon tax and instead look to help our state and its residents in our pursuit to produce a carbon neutral fuel that is affordable for all of Connecticut. Respectfully, Hunter Tweed President, Arbor Energy 