Consider this my testimony: Dear *Elected* legislators, While I feel for ya, I really do, about your total lack of money in this state, I do not agree with tolls, nor this other bill (#5363) that you are considering of late. I understand the need for clean air. Yep, I sure do, however why are all these ideas funded on the backs of the few middle class individuals that are still in the state? I drive for a living. I am a hourly paid merchandising rep. I travel from store to store every day, making sure that the brands you enjoy most are out on display, properly priced, and easy to reach and buy for your family. How is any kind of a 'carbon' tax going to help me, one of the few that left in this state that are pulling the wagon? That's right, it won't. This is just another ploy for a money-grab on the backs of people like me, the few, the proud, the five residents (it feels like) that have jobs and are paying taxes to fund your excessive programs. I feel that what we need to do is to bring back more jobs in more areas. For example, with all the brouhaha over guns lately, why the heck are we closing the Southbury Training School? Why not employ more people and have more people be helped by that institution? Why not? I don't know. It would make sense to have a place for the kids that cannot be helped in the school system. The constant interruptions in the city schools by kids that are in dire need of some help aren't helping anyone anywhere, much less themselves. I know that I don't like paying infinitely more and higher taxes to fund every program under the sun for everyone else all the time. I know that I drive a lot, I'm already paying higher gas prices than surrounding states. When my old job (I have been through 4 different ones through no fault of my own in the past 1.5 years..sickening, isn't it?) took me to Massachusetts, or New Jersey, or even the wilds of the Hudson Valley, NY, I would fill up. It's cheaper and my life was happier. Now on top of the ridiculously high property taxes (caused by the current administration in the state), the looming threat of tolls (caused by the lack of being responsible with my and my husband's tax dollars with regard to fixing the infrastructure.), people like me that actually pay our bills (on time..imagine that!) will have to foot yet another tax scheme (scam). Enough! Look, if we want more tax dollars to come to our state, the obvious solution would be to lower the taxes we already have. We want to encourage companies to come here, not just people on the dole that heard that living in CT would get you easy welfare. Not only that we want to have companies come here to hire people like me, people that have two (TWO !!!!!) degrees (and I have the student loans to prove it!). The more people here that actually work and pay (not that fake 'earned income credit..what the heck is that anyway?) taxes, the more money in the coffers. Add to that some super-fiscally responsible individuals in the governor's office and legislature and there ya go, problem solved! Until then people like me will just get squashed until we decide to give up, and either leave, or become one of the welfare takers. Is that what you want? Suzanne A. Spinelli 33 Harvest Lane Southbury, CT 06488 