Testimony of Eric Brown Connecticut Business and Industry Association Before the Energy and Technology Committee March 6, 2018 The Connecticut Business and Industry Association (CBIA) appreciates this opportunity to comment on: Raised Bill No. 332, An Act Concerning Solicitation for Natural Gas Transport Capacity CBIA opposes this bill This bill seeks to remove Connecticut’s ability to join with other New England states in soliciting proposals for expanding interstate natural gas transmission capacity -an increasingly critical need to ensure Connecticut businesses and residents have a cheaper, cleaner and more reliable source of electricity. As this committee is well aware, New England is becoming ever more reliant on natural gas fired power plants to meet its electricity needs. The current limitations of our natural gas transmission infrastructure capacity is: 1. spurring higher electricity costs – especially during winter months due to high demand and low supplies 2. threatening reliability – most recently evidenced by how close Connecticut came to experience power outages during this winter’s bitter cold snap; and 3. resulting in higher emissions of greenhouse gases and other emissions associated with oil and coalfired power plants which played a critical role in “keeping the lights on” this winter In short, additional interstate natural gas transmission infrastructure is critical to achieving the “cleaner, cheaper and more reliable”foundation of Connecticut’s energy policy. Further, it is well established that Connecticut alone, cannot and will not be able to achieve the necessary capacity expansion on its own.  This must be a region effort.  Accordingly, it is critical that Connecticut maintain its current authority to enter into the very interstate agreements this bill seeks to prohibit. For these reasons, CBIA strongly opposes this bill and requests this committee’s urgent attention to ensuring its quick demise. Thank you for this opportunity to provide comment and for your consideration of our position. 