Established¥7-Middlesexilllrlr-aChamber 1895 Chester ¥ Cromwell ¥ Deep River ¥ Durham ¥ East Haddam ¥ East Hampton ¥ Essex ¥ Haddam ¥ Middlefield ¥ Middletown ¥ Portland ¥ Westbrook Legislative Committee March 7, 2018 Energy and Technology Committee State Capitol, Room 3900 Hartford, CT 06106 Members of the Energy and Technology Committee: The Middlesex County Chamber of Commerce is a dynamic business organization with over 2,125 members that employ over 50,000 people in and around our service area. Our chamber represents businesses from all industry sectors and of all sizes, from Fortune 500 companies to micro businesses. The purpose of this letter today is to convey the chamber's opposition to SB 332, An Act Concerning Solicitation for Natural Gas Transportation Capacity. Our chamber recognizes the critical importance of infrastructure and of grid resilience in our region and throughout the state. Existing statutes allow the DEEP Commissioner to work with other key stakeholders in state government to evaluate proposals that could increase natural gas pipeline capacity. This is to help ensure that there is sufficient natural gas to meet the needs of residential, commercial and industrial customers, in addition to owners of natural gas-fired power plants in Connecticut and throughout New England. This is good public policy that should remain in effect as we move forward. Our membership is concerned about the limited natural gas capacity in Connecticut and its ability to meet future peak demand. The state needs to have every option at its disposal to ensure that strong and reliable energy infrastructure canies us to the future. Thank you for the opportunity to weigh in on this important topic. 393 Main Street, Middletown, CT 06457-3309 ¥ 860-347-6924 ¥ Fax 860-346-1043 http://www.middlesexchamber.com ¥ Email: info@middlesexchamber.com Awards: Governor's Laurel Award for Responsible Social Involvement, President's White House Citation for Private Sector Initiatives U.S.Department of Labor LIFT America Award, Connecticut Small Business Advocate Award, Vision 2000 Excellence Award NAACP Business Award 