Testimony of Jeff Aiosa of Stonington, Connecticut In Opposition to Raised Bill 5310 An Act Concerning the Licensing of New and Used Car Dealers Transportation Public Hearing Legislative Office Building, Hartford, Connecticut March 5,2018 Good Afternoon, Senator Leone, Senator Boucher, Representative Guerrera, Representative Carney, and members of the Transportation Committee. My name is Jeff Aiosa I am the owner of Carriage House Mercedes Benz employing a staff of 50 in New London I am a first-generation dealer since I purchased my store out of bankruptcy in 1990. An acquisition that could never have happened if not for the franchise system. I pay close to $200,000. of the $714,626.00 in local property taxes paid by dealers in my city. I am here today to speak in opposition to Raised bill 5310, An Act Concerning the Licensing of New and Used Car Dealers. Tesla continues to mix up fact and fiction regarding the 270 new car dealers in Connecticut and their 14,000 employees. False: The state of Connecticut is losing sales tax revenue on cars bought outside the state. True: Sales tax is paid in the state where the car is registered. A Connecticut resident will pay sales tax on the car purchased in New York when they register the car in Connecticut. False: Tesla's direct sale model will increase jobs and revenue in Connecticut True: Tesla will outsource jobs to locations outside of Connecticut. The average franchised new car dealership employs 54 people. The Tesla store in Greenwich operating illegally without a license, employs 8. False: Connecticut does not welcome innovation. True: Connecticut sold a record number of electric vehicles through its legal manufacturer partners. Additionally, authorized licensed dealers represent 41 of the 44 different models sold in CT in the past two years. What's more, in the last year nearly 90% ofthem have been sold through local authorized dealerships. False: Tesla's Gallery in Greenwich is just a showcase. True: A case is pending in Connecticut Superior Court because the Connecticut Department of Motor Vehicles found based on Tesla's own star witness the Manager of the Tesla store, that Tesla was illegally selling their cars from the Greenwich "Gallery". False: Tesla can only sell their vehicles in Connecticut if our legislators enact a Tesla special law. True: Tesla can start selling today in Connecticut and could have for the past 4 years. Dealers are not about prohibiting other manufacturers from entering the market-legally. CT Auto Dealers welcome Tesla franchises as we have all other Manufacturer's competitive products. False: Tesla will honor all their promises they make in order to change laws in a state. True: Tesla makes lots of promises to build all sorts of facilities in states in order to entice the state to let them have the loop hole. Tesla promised Texas, Arizona and Nevada it would build its sole Gigafactory in their state. The promise was made to all three states at the same time. Tesla also promised Minnesota it would open a new Tesla store in the Mall of America after the state allowed Tesla to open a store. However, the actual store was opened in a rented garage in an industrial park in Minneapolis False: This bill limits the direct sale model to Tesla. Ture: The bill could allow other companies to sell directly to consumers; including Tata from India and numerous Chinese companies. The truth of the matter is franchise dealers employ 14,000 people in good jobs paying on average over 60,000 dollars a year. Millions in local property taxes on facilities worth multiple millions of dollars that they built, and they own ... not rented like Tesla ... in the towns and cities you represent I urge you to support policies that are founded in truths. Therefore, please vote against Bill 5310-An Act Concerning the Licensing of New and Used Car Dealers Thank you for your time. 