49 DePaolo Drive . Southington, CT . 06489 Testimony of Brian	 Paganini,	Vice	 President and	 Managing Director Quantum Biopower, LLC Before	 the	 Connecticut Energy and	 Technology Committee March 6, 2018 Senate Bill 337: AN ACT CONCERNING A	 RENEWABLE PORTFOLIO STANDARD, A	 PROCUREMENT PROCESS AND THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A QUALITY STANDARD FOR	 RENEWABLE NATURAL GAS AND THE PROCUREMENT	 OF ELECTRICITY	 GENERATED FROM A BIOMASS	 FACILITY Senator Winfield, Senator Formica, Representative	 Reed, Representative	 Ackert and distinguished members of the Energy and Technology Committee: My name is Brian Paganini and I am Vice	 President and Managing	 Director of Quantum Biopower. Quantum is the developer, owner and operator of the state’s	 only electricity producing	 anaerobic digester.	 The Southington facility processes 40,000	 tons per year of food waste, by aiding the organic breakdown	 of the material. It captures	 methane gas produced from the	 decomposition process and	 uses that	 gas to produce 1	 megawatt of renewable	 electricity.	 The electricity is fed to the grid and used to power several Southington Town buildings using the virtual net	 metering program. I	am 	here 	today 	to 	testify in 	support 	of 	Senate 	Bill	337, 	which 	would 	create a 	new 	Renewable 	Portfolio Standard	 (RPS)	 for	 natural gas purchases to serve gas customers in Connecticut.	 The bill	 also creates a	 procurement program for Renewable Natural Gas (RNG)	 and establishes a	 quality standard RNG must meet to assure utilities that the	 gas they buy is safe	 for injection into their	 pipelines.	 The bill has been raised, at least partially, by this Committee’s	 interest in hearing more about anaerobic digestion’s ability to produce	 pipeline quality RNG from the state’s	 organic	 waste. Quite logically, the Committee leadership’s	 interest was piqued	 by the idea of making natural gas – any natural gas – locally.	 As you	 know, natural gas costs may be	 low today, but	 transportation constraints and	 the underlying fuel itself are	 subject to wild volatility. Volatility is no friend of regulators. Quantum’s	 interest in 	producing 	gas 	rather 	than 	electricity was piqued the more we learned about	 energy production via the Southington project development process.	 In 	Southington, 	we	 have	 a	 gas line	 near the site. We	 also have	 waste	 trucks driving in 	and 	out 	each 	day.	 It just never seemed	 efficient for us to produce electricity. But	 that’s where the incentives were and, we needed	 to	 walk before we could run. But there’s	 no doubt that natural gas is a	 much more	 flexible	 fuel. It can be	 used for pipeline 	injection, to power	 trucks and vehicles, or	 if	 needed, to power	 an engine and produce electricity. 49 DePaolo Drive . Southington, CT . 06489 So why don’t	 we have more RNG? The answer	 is no	 surprise: its cost. Like other renewable energy technologies,	the 	capital 	cost 	for 	anaerobic 	digesters 	is 	high. 	The 	additional 	cost 	for a 	facility 	like Southington to produce	 pipeline	 quality RNG versus electricity is approximately $1 million.	 Given that the primary hurdles for	 digesters to	 overcome are on	 the solid	 waste side, little serious thought has been	 given	 to	 making the more up-front, capital-intensive energy product. But that thinking may be short sighted. Given all of these considerations, Quantum commissioned a	 report in 	2017 from the Gas Technology Institute 	to 	identify 	the 	universe of potential renewable gas in 	Connecticut,	 the benefits of RNG and	 address common concerns about gas quality and safety. The report is entitled:	 “Renewable Natural Gas: A	 Valuable Resource for Connecticut,” and has been included with my testimony. Among	 the	 report’s	 findings are that	 RNG could: • Displace	 540,000	tons	of	CO2 • Generate	42	MW	of	renewable	electricity • Displace	29	million	gallons	of	gasoline	or	27	million	gallons	of	diesel • Fuel	 7,000	heavy	duty	vehicles • Fuel	 40,000	passenger	vehicles • Power	40,000	homes	or	7.5%	of	residential	gas	users • Generate	300	skilled	jobs Quantum believes RNG is	 a logical next frontier	 on the way to Connecticut’s renewable energy future. How we get there can take any	 number of paths.	 Quantum appreciates and supports SB	 337’s	 proposed, RPS-inspired utility purchasing requirement structure. Both	 heating oil and	 electricity have renewable requirements and have successfully incentivized renewable sources as a	 result.	 The bill contains	 a proven, solid program structure to begin discussions	 about this	 valuable, untapped resource. Finally, Quantum appreciates	 the bill’s call for an established quality standard	 for RNG to	 assure the utilities that their gas pipelines will only receive safe, “pipeline quality” gas. Thank you for the opportunity to testify before you today. I’d	 be happy to	 answer any questions you have. 