My name is David Sousa, I am a 3rd generation owner at J&A Waterville Oil Service in Naugatuck, CT. Thank you for your time and consideration of my opposition to H.B. 5363. I do not feel that we are weighing the environmental benefits and problems associated with each fuel as comprehensively as we should. Meanwhile certain fuels like coal and oil are being vilified. We need to look at the total carbon cycle: Before combustion, after combustion, and everything in between. ALL fuels should be considered, studied, and compared; that includes: Methane Gas, Propane, Oil, Bio Fuel (B60), Wood, Coal, Garbage, Renewables, Electricity produced by Solar, Electricity produced by Power Plants (including Oil, Coal, Nuclear, etc.). Electricity produced from hydrocarbons/utilities are not 100% efficient or good for the environment. The waste occurs when the combustion occurs to produce the electricity. Other alternative fuels may not be safe either. For instance, units that create excess hydrogen that is released to the atmosphere1. It is abundantly clear as to the direction this State and our country seem to be headed with respect to carbon emissions. I am young, I want to stay in the State of Connecticut if I can. The proposed carbon tax by The State of Connecticut all but destroys that for me. This state needs to give B60, a carbon neutral fuel an opportunity to make a difference. By giving it an opportunity, the State then gives me an opportunity as well. There are three further points that I would like to make regarding this tax: First, ambience type combustion will need to be outlawed and removed throughout the State of Connecticut and the country. That includes anyone who has a finished patio with ambience lighting, outdoor fire pits (regardless of fuel), and grills that can be left on without cooking anything. These items are a complete and total waste of energy and bad for the atmosphere. No one gains any heat or anything valuable from these items, other than a narcissistic feeling. While we are at it, we should outlaw pool heaters and candles as well. Second, the State of Connecticut has raided the Energy Efficiency fund because it obviously does not have any idea what will work and what will not as far as one product versus another or any kind of strategy. None of us should believe that this will not happen again. We should not be taxed on Carbon emissions that are CLEARLY not well understood. This tax is a street sign that says, turn around if you are thinking of moving to Connecticut. If you live here, you probably want to consider leaving. Many of my customers are already considering this. I know by having face to face conversations with them about this topic. Third, government cannot justify taxing or suing companies, ala New York, for providing warmth for everyone (for generations), all while trying to make said companies look bad in the process. Government, as I see it, is a VERY LARGE, HAND-IN-HAND part of the problem. Politicians’ role is this: Every time a development or commercial/industrial parcel is approved by a local government or state government, in all likelihood, the area of development will be clearcutting forests, meadows and trees; the very entities that remove CO2 from the atmosphere. In their place, a carbon emitting building is likely to be erected. So, while any particular government believes that they are gaining revenues from taxes, they are simply being greedy while hurting the environment EXPONENTIALLY. The idea of “progress” needs to be thought through better. 1 http://ec.europa.eu/environment/integration/research/newsalert/pdf/266na6_en.pdf In conclusion, we need B60 in the Northeast because the climate of this region is NOT California, or the South. Our climate necessitates higher combustion rates in order to keep people warm. Effectively, we would like to BE the rest of the country, however, and I cannot emphasize this enough, WE ARE NOT THE REST OF THE COUNTRY! The DESIGN temperatures that we need to achieve in this area are much different than other areas and more closely related to Canada. B60 gives my generation and industry an opportunity to be better for the environment, be carbon neutral, and gives me hope. I hope it gives you hope as well! 