Image result for ct cbia logoTestimony of Eric Brown Connecticut Business and Industry Association Before the Environment Committee March 14, 2018 The Connecticut Business and Industry Association (CBIA) appreciates this opportunity to comment on: SB-345, An Act Concerning Climate Change Education in Connecticut Schools CBIA opposes the current language of this bill and recommends modification Good morning. My name is Eric Brown and I serve as Senior Counsel for the Connecticut Business and Industry Association (CBIA). CBIA represents thousands of businesses throughout the state of Connecticut with the majority having fewer than 25 employees. SB-345 would require public schools to offer instruction in “climate change consistent with the Next Generation Science [NGS] Standards.” However, there no such standards specified for “Climate change”.  Rather, climate science is incorporated into NGS standards on “Ecosystems”, “Earth Systems”, and “Earth and Human Activity”.  Current state statutes require instruction in “science” and therefore, it would seem that climate science falls within that sphere of that instruction. However, it appears the SGS standards are sound and developed by qualified individuals without, as best we can determine, a political agenda.  Therefore, if the committee wishes current state statute to be more specific that “science” with respect to instruction of climate science, we would urge this committee to amend the current language of the SB-345 (line 19) to replace “climate change” with “earth systems, including earth and human activity”. Secondly, lines 30 thru 33 of the bill mandates that DEEP staff be available to each local and regional board of education for the development of curriculum on climate change as described in this section.” With DEEP’s limited and increasingly challenging resource limitations, we do not believe those precious resources should be allocated to designing school curriculums – even if the appropriate expertise exists on its staff – which we do not believe it does.  Accordingly, CBIA urges the committee to strike the proposed language on lines 30 to 33 of the bill. Thank you for this opportunity to comment and for your consideration of our positions. 