The association of electrical equipment and medical imaging manufacturers www.nema.org March 5, 2019 The Honorable David Arconti Chair of the Joint Committee on Energy and Technology Connecticut General Assembly 300 Capitol Avenue Hartford, CT 06106 The Honorable Norman Needleman Chair of the Joint Committee on Energy and Technology Connecticut General Assembly 300 Capitol Avenue Hartford, CT 06106 Re: NEMA Opposes House Bill 7151, An Act Concerning Energy Efficiency Standards Dear Representative Arconti, Senator Needleman, and members of the Committee: I write on behalf of the National Electrical Manufacturers Association (NEMA) which represents companies in the electroindustry that make a broad range of electrical products from energy management systems, to lighting products, and electric motors to name a few. In the state of Connecticut, 24 of our member companies maintain 34 facilities employing over 3,800 people. NEMA opposes HB 7151, which includes language to create unnecessary regulations on General Service Lamps and High Color Rendering Index (CRI) Fluorescent Lamps. The bill also gives sweeping power to the Commissioner of Energy and Environmental Protection to set standards for products in Connecticut. We appreciate the opportunity to offer insights into the potentially negative and likely unintended consequences this bill could have on Connecticut residents. First, General Service Lamps are a federally-covered product under the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (EPCA) and State regulation is expressly superseded and preempted by EPCA. 42 U.S.C. §6297. HB 7151 explicitly acknowledges that these lamps are subject to federal preemption. See HB 7151 at pages 27-28. The U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) is currently undertaking a rulemaking for these lamps that will determine how they are regulated nationally.  An issue in the current DOE rulemaking is the scope of the lamps regulated as General Service Lamps. In January 2017, DOE originally embraced the idea that there was a very broad range of lamp types including incandescent reflector and candelabra base and intermediate base incandescent lamps that were General Service Lamps.  DOE did not have the legal authority to establish the broad definition that was published in January 2017 because it was not consistent with the intent of Congress. DOE has acknowledged this and is in the process of issuing a revised regulation. If this revised regulation is finalized, the State of Connecticut will still not be able to regulate incandescent reflector and candelabra base and intermediate base incandescent lamps because they too are already separate covered products under EPCA and will continue to be federally regulated as such. Any energy regulation Connecticut might adopt for those lamps will be superseded as well, just as Connecticut is presently preempted from regulating them. HB 7151 proposes to create an unnecessarily complex process for sorting out federal preemption, which only highlights the legal conundrum the bill presents. What is left under HB 7151 that is mistakenly proposed to be a General Service Lamp in Connecticut is a variety of specialty lamps that likely cannot be regulated federally because the light bulbs do not consume enough household electricity to be regulated. That also means they do not consume enough household electricity in Connecticut to warrant regulation. The manufacture and sale of these other incandescent lamps is rapidly declining, and Connecticut cannot expect to gain significant energy savings from these lamps. The market for lighting products is already rapidly moving towards light emitting diode (LED) products without the heavy hand of regulation. Secondly, language in HB 7151 provides a way for the Commissioner to set efficiency standards without public, stakeholder, or legislative input. Allowing the Commissioner to set standards for products in such a way that distinctly lacks transparency would be both inappropriate and harmful to consumers. For example, the efficiency standard on High CRI Lamps, one of the products in the scope of HB 7151, offers minimal actual energy savings and a high burden on consumers. We believe this product is being targeted due to misinformation being pushed by advocacy groups. If the Department begins creating efficiency standards without technical input from stakeholders on the actual benefits and potential ramifications, more ineffective and harmful standards could follow. The standards set in this bill for High CRI Fluorescent Lamps would have the effect of banning the sale of T12 lamps in Connecticut. High CRI T12 Fluorescent lamps have typically been used in residential applications, usually in “shoplite” fixtures operated with low power ballasts. If these T12 lamps cannot be sold in Connecticut, residents will have no suitable replacements for their fixtures. Neither T8 fluorescent lamps nor linear LEDs (TLEDs) will work in the High CRI T12 fixtures due to the specific ballast that accommodates the High CRI T12s. Residents who have these fixtures will be forced to replace their entire set of current fixtures if they need replacement lamps, incurring additional costs – first for the new fixture and, in many cases, for the cost of an electrician to install it. The costs to the consumer exceed the energy savings benefit.  This is a burdensome and costly imposition on Connecticut residents who simply need to replace a light bulb. The potential energy savings from banning High CRI T12 lamps claimed by advocacy groups are greatly overstated. NEMA conducted a study on potential energy savings and found that approximately 3% of the national energy savings claimed in the States Go First1 report from the Appliance Standards Awareness Project (ASAP) would actually be attainable by banning High CRI T12 Fluorescent Lamps. NEMA would welcome the opportunity to discuss our energy savings findings with the Committee. We are concerned about the substantial burden to be placed on Connecticut residents in the pursuit of questionable energy savings claimed by ASAP. For these reasons, we recommend the General Assembly take no action on HB 7151. For further discussion, clarifications or questions, please contact my colleague, Madeleine Bugel at Madeleine.Bugel@nema.org or 703-841-3222. National Electrical Manufacturers Association (NEMA) 1 http://appliance-standards.org/sites/default/files/States%20Go%20First.pdf NEMA represents nearly 350 electrical equipment and medical imaging manufacturers that make safe, reliable, and efficient products and systems. Our combined industries account for 360,000 American jobs in more than 7,000 facilities covering every state. Our industry produces $106 billion shipments of electrical equipment and medical imaging technologies per year with $36 billion exports. 