Ladies and Gentlemen, My name is Ken Coomes, I am here on behalf of Aldin Associates L.P. to voice opposition to the proposed Senate bill 354 Ð an act establishing a green new deal for CT. Aldin Associates is a third-generation family owned CT business.  We have been a petroleum marketer and reseller spanning a period of over 5 decades. In addition to our own stores, the majority of which are operated by independent small business, we also supply approximately 25 independent station owners. Commonly known as Mom & Pop dealers. We realize we are an industry in decline. Hydrocarbon based fuels and the internal combustion engine are slowly dying.  Each year volumes decrease as new technologies and renewables emerge. It is inevitable that, over time, technology will provide cost-effective ways to eliminate the need for hydrocarbon fuels and their resultant emissions. That transition is underway and companies like ours will either evolve over time or decline until they are no longer relevant.  This is happening in an orderly manner under economic circumstances that allow jobs and businesses to adjust.  This bill forces changes that can jeopardize that transition at a great cost to jobs, energy reliability, the local tax base, and the family businesses who have invested in their communities for nearly a century. Reducing carbon emissions is an admirable goal. This bill however places an unfair amount of the expense clearly on the backs of CT residents Ð specifically electric ratepayers. This bill embraces electrification and the discontinuance of the diverse energy choices available today.  There are many flaws with this legislation as composed.  We are basically ceding a robust and competitive energy market and placing it solely in the hands of the monopolistic electric utilities.  The electrical transmission grid is in even worse shape than our transportation infrastructure.  Without substantial and costly upgrade, service disruptions will be imminent and frequent. Imposition of substantial carbon taxes will be onerous to low and middle-income taxpayers of CT. In addition to carbon taxes, rate increases imposed by the electric utilities will be staggering Ð only adding to the highest electric cost in the country. This legislation clearly picks winner and losers, and will result in ever expanding government bureaucracy that will likely impede the development of new technologies. We are currently seeing a controlled migration to alternative fuel and electric vehicles.  It is a steady progression that grows larger each year. Sometimes good intentions have unintended consequences.  The known consequences of this bill are frightening enough for me. For these reasons I ask that you oppose proposed Senate bill 354. Thank you. 