CEDAS'04Officers President Garrett Sheehan, CEcD Greater New Haven Chamber of Commerce First Vice President Kristen Gorski Town of West Hartford Second Vice President Paige Bronk, AICP Town of Groton Treasurer Mark Barnhart Town of Fairfield Secretary Tom Burmeister Profit Miners Board of Directors Michael Andreana, Esq. Pullman & Comley, LLC Paige Bronk, AICP Town of Groton Laura Brown, CeCD UCONN Department of Extension Ani Chaghatzbanian Diversified Construction Sadie Colcord Connecticut Economic Resource Center Lynn DiGiovanni Luchs Consulting Beatriz Gutiérrez CT Department of Economic & Community Development Richard LoPresti Town of North Haven Fred Messore City of West Haven Julie Nash City of Milford Kimberly Parsons Whitaker CT Main Street Karen Pollard Town of New Milford Rose Ponte Town of Farmington Erin Wilson Town of Torrington Trenton Wright, CEcD Middlesex Community College Ryan Wolfe United Illuminating c/o CCM Energy & Technology Committee Public Hearing Thursday, March 5, 2020 Senator Needleman, Representative Arconti, Senator Formica, Representative Ferraro, and members of the Energy & Technology Committee, thank you for the opportunity to submit testimony in opposition to HOUSE BILL 5350, AN ACT CONCERNING NATURAL GAS INFRASTRUCTURE. On behalf of the Connecticut Economic Development Association (CEDAS), please accept this testimony against House Bill 5350 – An Act Concerning Natural Gas Infrastructure.  Our concerns lie specifically with Section 3 of the raised bill, which will limit the length of time (by changing the “hurdle rate”) a natural gas utility can recover its investments from natural gas expansion to residents and businesses in this state. CEDAS is the professional association for economic developers across Connecticut.  We count approximately 400 members who are working everyday to increase economic growth in Connecticut.  H.B. 5350 sets back those efforts.  Connecticut has high costs for doing business.  Right now, it’s critical that we hold those in check, butby clamping down on natural gas expansion, consumers will have fewer choices and costs will rise. If passed with this language, raised House Bill 5350 will make increasing the availability of natural gas to homes and neighborhoods in Connecticut communities cost-prohibitive, thus eliminating a reliable, efficient and desired lower-cost energy option – and in turn, create a very negative message to both residents and potential and existing businesses. This bill will negatively impact economic development efforts that are occurring across the state. We oppose House Bill 5350 – An Act Concerning Natural Gas Infrastructure. Please vote against passage of this bill. Thank you for your consideration, Garrett Sheehan President Connecticut Economic Development Association • 545 Long Wharf, 8th Floor • New Haven, CT 06511 • www.cedas.org 