TESTIMONY Energy & Technology Committee House Bill 5350 – An Act Concerning Natural Gas Infrastructure March 5, 2020 On behalf of Great Blue Research, Inc., please accept this testimony against House Bill 5350 – An Act Concerning Natural Gas Infrastructure. Our concerns lie specifically with Section 3 of the raised bill, which will limit the length of time (by changing the “hurdle rate”) a natural gas utility can recover its investments from natural gas expansion to residents and businesses in this state. If passed with this language, raised House Bill 5350 will make increasing the availability of natural gas to homes and neighborhoods in Connecticut communities cost-prohibitive, thus eliminating a reliable, efficient and desired lower-cost energy option – and in turn, create a very negative message to both residents and potential and existing businesses. Great Blue Research has been conducting market research for both utilities and their customers for over 40 years. In my role as CEO of Great Blue Research, I work with utility companies around the nation, and have first-hand knowledge that utilities are embracing energy choice and also, are actively helping their states’ recruit new businesses with economic development-type rates and incentives. It is these types of tools utility companies can use to make their states more attractive for potential business. If passed, raised House Bill 5350 would have a negative impact on Connecticut’s economic development opportunities as it would limit the tools available for potential businesses to consider Connecticut, as well as existing businesses to consider. A proposal that would significantly increase utility costs without reducing greenhouse gas emissions is not a solution. For these reasons, we oppose Raised House Bill 5350 – An Act Concerning Natural Gas Infrastructure. For more information, I may be reached at 860-740-4000 or michael@Greatblueresearch.com. Sincerely, Michael Vigeant CEO, Great Blue Research, Inc. Great Blue Research, Inc. :: 20 Western Blvd. 1st FLoor, Glastonbury, CT 06033 