Energy and Technology Committee March 5, 2020 The Connecticut Conference of Municipalities (CCM) is Connecticut’s statewide association of towns and cities and the voice of local government -your partners in governing Connecticut.  Our members represent 100% of Connecticut’s population. We appreciate the opportunity to testify on bills of interest to towns and cities. H.B. 5008 “An Act Concerning the Establishment of High Performance Green Building Standards for Voluntary Adoption by Municipalities.” CCM has concerns with H.B. 5008. H.B. 5008 would (1) allow a municipality, at local option, to adopt High Performance Building Standards or “stretch building code” for buildings built in their jurisdiction, (2) require that any municipality that does adopt such standards must report such adoption to the Department of Energy and Environmental Protection (DEEP), (3) allow DEEP to review decisions by any municipal or municipal board of appeals related to the provision of such standards, and (4) give DEEP the ability to issue an interpretation of such decisions and the ability to issue a variance or suggest alternative materials and methods of construction. CCM is concerned that this bill provides DEEP with authority over decisions made locally by municipal chief executive officers (CEO) and municipal boards of appeal in lines 61-87. Additionally, if this shift in policy is meant to assist in meeting goals set by the Governor’s Council on Climate Change in 2018 to reduce the state’s building sector emissions by 34 percent by 2030 in order to meet the 2050 requirement, then why not require these standards be adopted instead? One key issue with local option policies is the “disequalizing” aspect – the municipalities where development is rich and the housing stock is strong will enact such standards, while the municipalities where such development and housing factors are not as strong will not, resulting in the less affluent communities being less competitive for residents and economic development. As such, any proposal with a new local-state benefit must be analyzed with this in mind – whether it would be better, for instance, to apply a local policy on a statewide basis. CCM request the committee consider these factors before taking action on H.B. 5008. If you have any questions, please contact Donna Hamzy, Advocacy Manager of CCM at dhamzy@ccm-ct.org or (203) 843-0705. 