Testimony of AVANGRID (UI, SCG, CNG) Before The ENERGY AND TECHNOLOGY COMMITTEE Regarding RAISED SENATE BILL 178 AN ACT CONCERNING ENERGY EFFICIENCY STANDARDS RASIED SENATE BILL 177 AN ACT CONCERNING ENERGY CONSUMPTION DATA AND LABELING LEGISLATIVE OFFICE BUILDING HARTFORD, CT February 27, 2020 Good morning Senators Needleman, Lesser and Formica, Representatives Arconti, Allie-Brennan, and Ferraro, and members of the Energy and Technology Committee.  My name is Jane Lano and I am the Manager of Conservation & Load Management for UIL Holdings Corporation (UIL), the parent company for United Illuminating, The Southern Connecticut Gas Company and Connecticut Natural Gas, and wholly-owned subsidiaries of Avangrid, Inc. I thank you for this opportunity to offer testimony on Raised Senate Bill 178, AN ACT CONCERNING ENERGY EFFICIENCY STANDARDS and Raised Senate Bill 177 AN ACT CONCERNING ENERGY CONSUMPTION DATA AND LABELING. SB 178, AN ACT CONCERNING ENERGY EFFICIENCY STANDARDS UI supports advancing appropriate efficiency standards for energy-using appliances and equipment.  SB 178 proposes nineteen standards that will provide long term energy savings, financial savings and environmental benefits.  As the state has recognized in the 2018 Comprehensive Energy Strategy, codes and standards are an important strategy for advancing towards Connecticut’s energy and greenhouse gas emission goals in the building sector. Appliance standards can save customers and businesses money by eliminating the least efficient products in the marketplace.  State leadership on appliance standards has been a proven and successful policy, where new standards that have commonly originated in California, are adopted by additional states and eventually form the basis for a national standard.  While national standards offer many benefits, the current U.S. Department of Energy has missed legal deadlines and has taken actions to roll back standards. In response, states around the country are pursing or considering action on new standards.  New energy-saving standards, together with UI’s ongoing commitment to lead deliver award-winning and nationally-recognized energy efficiency and demand management programs to Connecticut’s residents, businesses, and municipalities, will continue to transform the market in our state.   UI supports these standards because they will yield net economic savings and other benefits for our customers in addition to significant energy savings statewide.  The bill should be a priority in the current legislative session.   SB 177 AN ACT CONCERNING ENERGY CONSUMPTION DATA AND LABELING SB 177 includes many approaches that UI has embraced to educate customers about energy use. While UI supports enabling customer access to their usage data and has provided residential customers with Green Button Connect functionality and non-residential customers with automated data uploads to EPA’s Energy Star Portfolio Manager Tool, UI anticipates some logistical challenges and customer costs associated with the raised bill, particularly for non.residential customers, there are challenges and costs associated with matching energy consumption to specific buildings, submetering scenarios, and no consistent method to collect and report delivered fuel consumption.  In its current state, SB 177 permits the non-residential customer to authorize its electric and/or gas distribution companies to release his/her consumption data to the Department of Energy and Environmental Protection; however, UI does not maintain records on building or lot size.  UI has a tremendous amount of experience working with non-residential customers to establish their portfolio of buildings and meters within EPA’s Energy Start Portfolio Manager Tool and would like to share with the committee that this is rarely straightforward in the case of large buildings or campuses.  However, once the building has been set up in the tool, the data transfer from the electric and gas distribution companies is automatic and customers can benchmark their usage, identify trends and create action plans to reduce consumption that UI”s Conservation and Load Management team can help deliver.  UI encourages the committee to make use of existing infrastructure and tools and balance disclosure with the protection of customer data and costs associated with complying with SB 177. Thank you for your time, and I would be happy to answer any questions you may have. You may also contact Al Carbone, Manager of Avangrid/UIL State Government Relations at (203) 671-4421 