CT Statement on SB 177 AN ACT CONCERNING ENERGY CONSUMPTION DATA AND LABELING OPPOSE February 27, 2020 By Connecticut REALTORS® Connecticut REALTORS® (CTR) submits testimony in OPPOSITION of SB 177, AN ACT CONCERNING ENERGY CONSUMPTION DATA AND LABELING. CTR represents over 17,000 members involved in all aspects of real estate in Connecticut. SB 177, AN ACT CONCERNING ENERGY CONSUMPTION DATA AND LABELING proposes non-residential property owners of buildings greater than or equal to fifty thousand gross square feet, or two or more buildings on the same parcel that are greater than or equal to one hundred thousand gross square feet, report the previous calendar year's energy consumption data to the Department of Energy and Environmental Protection (DEEP), and residential property owners to disclose, upon request at the time the property is publicly listed for sale or rent, the previous calendar year's energy bills. This proposed legislation is unsound and will create inaccurate and misleading information to both potential homeowners and potential commercial property owners.  This bill does not in any way take into account consumer behavior or commercial property use that will drive energy consumption and costs.  Energy labels can inaccurately stigmatize properties. For example, a family of five occupying a home and regularly running air conditioners, a dishwasher, washer/dryer, etc. would likely have energy costs substantially higher than a family of two subsequently using that same home.  SB 177 would unnecessarily stigmatize the residential property for sale.  In commercial real estate, each company’s needs are different.  A manufacturer would have higher energy reports than an office operating at the same location. Use of the property and hours of operation drive energy costs – it does not stay the same from owner to owner. This proposal could result in very misleading information for potential tenants or purchasers.  Property owners do not have control of the energy consumption of their residential and commercial tenants. Many property owners have seen property values drop, jobs eliminated and tenants have been lost. Costs resulting from passage of the proposed bill would add to the financial burden of property owners.  It is already extremely difficult and costly to start or relocate a business; or to purchase a home in Connecticut.  CTR remains committed to reasonable, voluntary strategies for energy consumption. Increased efficiency may not reduce costs, which is often what is being sought. Our housing and commercial markets are still struggling to recover and SB 177 creates another obstacle to moving existing inventories in the marketplace. For these reasons, CTR requests your rejection of SB 177, AN ACT CONCERNING ENERGY CONSUMPTION DATA AND LABELING. Thank you very much for your time and attention to this important matter. CT REALTORS®:  Making the Dream of Home Ownership a Reality for 100 Years (1920-2020) 