March 3, 2020 TESTIMONY OF LESLIE ANDERSON President and CEO of the Propane Gas Association of New England BEFORE THE CONNECTICUT COMMITTEE ON LABOR AND PUBLIC EMPLOYEES Concerning An Act Establishing a Green New Deal for Connecticut The Propane Gas Association of New England (PGANE) is pleased to have the opportunity to offer its comments regarding An Act Establishing a Green New Deal for Connecticut. PGANE is a regional alternative energy trade association representing members of the propane industry in the six New England States. We exist to serve the propane industry by promoting safety, education and public awareness of the uses of propane. Our membership includes propane companies and suppliers, including numerous small companies who are often family owned and operated, many for several generations. Propane on demand hot water heaters, cooktops, and furnaces produce less greenhouse gas emissions than electric heat pumps, as well as less nitrogen and less sulfur oxides. In fact, propane is the preferred partner with solar for zero net energy housing. Comparing electricity and propane with a lifecycle analysis, propane wins hands down with the lowest carbon emissions. Using propane furthers the fundamental environmental goal to Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle as promoted by EPA and DEP. Most people do not realize that propane is a beneficial biproduct of natural gas processing. About 5% of natural gas processing produces propane. If propane is not captured and beneficially used to offset another energy source, it is simply burned off. Thus, propane should be promoted as key component of Connecticut’s energy strategy, since reuse of this underutilized biproduct is essentially carbon neutral (surplus biproduct is wasted energy). Propane is a perfect partner with renewable energy as it is the cleanest backup for solar installations and wind turbines. Unlike toxic battery storage, propane is a recognized clean alternative fuel by EPA under the 1990 Clean Air Act, and it is an essential backup for our ever-increasing use of the electric grid. Propane is nontoxic and has no ozone depleting chemicals, unlike electricity transformers. Renewable propane is also a viable innovation and under development from algae sources. Renewable propane is also being produced today from bio sources in Louisiana, California, and Europe. As the biofuels industry continues to develop and create greater volumes, traditional propane can be replaced with renewable propane without any change to equipment. Today, renewable propane use isn’t even necessary, because traditional propane is an underutilized resource. The reason propane is underutilized is because so much of it is available due to the increase in natural gas energy power plants replacing coal and nuclear power plants. Indeed, here in New England over 50 percent of our electric grid energy comes from natural gas. Thus, if we are truly going to be good environmental stewards, we should be reusing this beneficial byproduct. Section (d)(1) beginning on line 62 of the bill, attempts to combat climate change by promoting electrification. However, promoting electrification over the use of propane would be detrimental to the overall goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, promoting electrification and expanding its use will make Connecticut more vulnerable to climate impacts. If electricity dependence is going to increase throughout Connecticut, it is imperative that the legislature partner with an energy source that will further the state’s energy security and resiliency needs. Propane is the perfect partner for resiliency needs. Propane is an EPA certified alternative fuel and a federally certified emergency civil defense energy. Thus, we suggest that item (F) be amended in Section (d)(1) to include the use of the alternative energy propane: “(F) measures to promote the beneficial use of propane and beneficial electrification of personal and freight transport and other strategies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions form the transportation sector;” “(G) measures to achieve reductions in energy use in existing residential and commercial buildings, including the beneficial use of propane and the beneficial electrification of water and space heating in buildings, establishing appliance efficiency standards based on lifecycle analysis of total carbon emissions, strengthening building energy codes, requiring annual building energy benchmarking, disclosing energy efficiency in home sales, and expanding the ability of state facilities to utilize performance contracting;” Propane is the cleanest and most environmentally friendly backup power for critical infrastructure. As a nontoxic organic compound made of carbon and hydrogen, propane backup storage does not expire, and has no toxic components that could contaminate the environment. Propane vehicles and backup systems do not require mining of heavy metals unlike battery technologies. Heavy metals such as cobalt and lithium are not renewable. In fact, cobalt is currently mined in developing countries and by people and children who do not have the labor or safety protections that exist here in Connecticut.  Section (h)(2)(5) of this bill seeks to further environmental justice and equity, and yet, the promotion of battery technology through the promotion of electricity is currently causing this very same problem and too a much more egregious extent amongst the poorest and most disadvantaged communities in locations like the Democratic Republic of the Congo where there is now a lawsuit against Tesla and other companies that are buying cobalt from these locations to make their electric batteries. Thus, we suggest that item (J) be amended in Section (d)(1) to discourage the promotion of climate change strategies that cause horrific environmental and health and safety consequences: (j) measures to limit the use of chemicals, substances or products that contribute to global climate change or environmental contamination, health, or safety issues to global communities of color or low income, when released into the environment, or into the atmosphere, but not intended for end-use combustion; We support the goals of this act to consider the largest possible greenhouse gas emissions reductions in the most cost-effective manner, and the importance of building resiliency and energy security. Propane is a proven solution for transportation emissions. Around the globe, propane is the highest used alternative fuel for transportation. Propane school buses are proven solutions for rural states. Propane buses cost one third the price of an electric bus and start at forty-five below zero without engine warmers. To meet resiliency and sustainability goals, many are utilizing propane vehicles to lower carbon emissions and provide security when electricity, gasoline, and diesel are unavailable. Resiliency and energy security are of fundamental importance in protecting the critical infrastructure within the state, ranging from commercial and municipal needs such as backup power generation for hospitals to residential needs such as boiling water and cooking food. In order to ensure the safety of our citizens, when there are electrical disruptions from winter storms, climate disasters, or cyber terrorism, it is essential that the state promote an energy like propane, which is sustainable, green, and resilient. For this reason, propane needs to be an integral part of the Connecticut green new deal. We are concerned that Section (g) could potentially reduce the diversity and thus the resiliency of Connecticut’s energy mix and energy security. Limiting permitting and licensing and assigning this responsibility to all state agencies, office, authorities and divisions will be extremely taxing to the businesses and citizens of this state. Permitting approvals are already lengthy and burdensome processes, and we are opposed to adding another layer of bureaucracy to this procedure, especially one where the vast number of approval reviews could be subjective decisions by varying individuals.  For example, would this mean that a registration for an older gasoline powered vehicle owned by a disadvantaged citizen might be refused because the clerk is worried with being sued for unreasonable pollution? Section 2 (e) includes proposes new language concerning establishment by DEEP of a social cost of carbon dioxide equivalent. The social cost of carbon has been widely criticized as being extremely uncertain, having to change over time and according to the level of emissions, and is claimed to be useless to policymakers. The social cost of carbon is no longer used for policy appraisal in the United Kingdom or the European Union. Calculating the amount of carbon generated for any methodology within state statutes needs to be based on a lifecycle analysis of all emissions associated with an energy source.  For example, heat pump electrification carbon output should include the carbon associated with production of the electricity, distribution of the electricity from the source of production, to the source of refinement, to the distribution of process, including all the losses associated with the distribution systems, such as electrical line loss, electric utility vehicle fleet emissions, electric transformer and electrical equipment losses of the insulator gas SF6, the most potent of all greenhouse gases, deforestation losses caused by transmission lines and telephone poles, and final electricity usage at the point of use. If lifecycle analysis is not used in calculating carbon emissions, the state runs the risk of increasing carbon emissions rather than decreasing them. Another concern that should be removed from this bill, is Section 1 (b) which seeks to allow the state to be sued under the unreasonable pollution standards in chapter 439, and would also require the state to pay the attorney costs of successful plaintiffs. This section would direct resources and funds that could be used to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, away from the goals of this act and tie them up in litigation and attorney expenses. Our industry is concerned about the environment and is actively working to reduce carbon emissions. The propane industry is reducing millions of tons of carbon emissions each year. Across the globe, propane is being used to solve the world’s greatest health threat, indoor air pollution caused primarily by burning wood for cooking and heating. Over 3.5 million people die annually from cooking with solid fuels. This leads to deforestation at an alarming rate in many developing countries and causes enormous carbon dioxide emissions. Moving one family from wood to propane saves over one ton of CO2 per year. In India, the propane industry has partnered with the Indian government to move 3 million people annually from solid fuels to propane, saving over 3 million tons of CO2 emissions per year for the last three years. In addition, moving 50 families to propane from wood saves an acre of rainforest land. Across the globe propane is being used improve human health, reduce carbon emissions, and reduce deforestation. Propane is also literally improving the lives of women around the globe. Once women and girls switch from gathering wood, an activity that takes up to six hours per day and is fraught with danger including snake bite and rape, women are freed to become educated, and spend more quality time with their children. Connecticut needs to join in this effort recognized by many countries around the globe, and partner with propane as a solution for reducing carbon dioxide emissions! For these reasons, we respectfully request that the committee vote No on the CT Green New Deal and consider amending future the climate bills to include the suggestions that we have proposed. 