The American Institute of Architects, Connecticut Chapter 370 James Street, Suite 402, New Haven, CT 06513 203-865-2195 aiainfo@aiact.org, www.aiact.org Energy and Technology Committee March 5, 2020 Public Hearing Testimony in Opposition to H.B. 5008 Submitted by: Gina Calabro, Executive Director, AIA Connecticut 370 James Street, New Haven, CT 06513 Dear Senator Needleman, Representative Arconti, Senator Formica, Representative Ferraro: The Connecticut Chapter of the American Institute of Architects, a professional association of over 1,500 members, wishes to express our concerns of H.B. 5008. We support High Performance Green Building Standards and are cognizant of the role they can play in helping the State of Connecticut achieve its climate crisis mitigation objectives. We also acknowledge that continual efforts should be made to encourage increased energy efficiency and lessen carbon emissions. Our concern is that the State of Connecticut implemented a State Building Code and Fire Safety Code to enact, administer, modify, and interpret the code provisions consistently throughout the State. We recognize that towns want to join the fight against climate change but asking each to volunteer to adopt a standardized high-performance building standard, when this is already part of the Codes and Standards that building officials adhere to, may result in a two-tiered system and have other unintended consequences. The Codes and Standards Committee based in current statute consisting of professionals in the design and construction industry Ð including architects that are experts with many years of codes and professional experience. We support using the International Green Construction Codes (IgCC) as the replacement to the High-Performance Building Standard (HPBS) for state funded work, coupled with a request for a study/evaluation by Office of the State Building Inspector (OSBI) and the Codes and Standards Committee about adopting it as a stretch code. We recommend that OSBI/Codes and Standards are given a deadline of January 2021 to report back to the Legislature and if the implementation details can be worked out by then, the use of the IgCC can be expanded to serve as the stretch code. In so doing we are supporting the effort while acknowledging the real-world training and enforcement hurdles that are known to exist. Thank you for the opportunity to express our concerns. Thank you for your consideration. 2020 Officers  Directors  George E. McGoldrick, AIA  Randall Anway, AIA  F. Michael Ayles, FAIA  Thomas Haskell, AIA  President  Treasurer  Joseph R. Bergin, AIA  Dominique Moore, Assoc. AIA  Angela D. Cahill, AIA  Paolo Campos, AIA  Catherine Ellithorpe, AIA  Linda Reeder, FAIA  President-Elect  Secretary  Andrew Gorzkowski, AIA  Susan Wyeth, AIA  Glenn R. Gollenberg, AIA  Past President  Gina Calabro, Executive Director  