Statement on: H.B. 5350: AN ACT CONCERNING NATURAL GAS INFRASTRUCTURE Connecticut General Assembly Energy & Technology Committee March 5, 2020 The Hartford Chamber of Commerce promotes, supports, and assists the business and civic communities in Connecticut’s capital city. We are fortunate to count among our members employers of all sizes who work hard every day to compete and succeed both locally and in the global marketplace. One critical challenge for many employers in our region is effective management of their energy costs. That is why on our members’ behalf, we are expressing our opposition to H.B. 5350. If passed, H.B. 5350 will make it harder for businesses in Connecticut to choose lower cost natural gas. In recent years, the average wholesale price of oil has risen as the price of natural gas has declined, providing many Connecticut employers with the opportunity to select a less expensive, cleaner fuel source. The State of Connecticut recognized the importance of enabling customers to choose their fuel when it launched its natural gas expansion program in 2013, an initiative that successfully converted 12,021 commercial and industrial customers and 39,104 residential customers to natural gas. Additionally, natural gas has played a vital role in reducing Connecticut’s Greenhouse Gas emissions.  According to the 2015 ISO-NE Electric Generator Air Emissions Report, between 2001 and 2014 carbon dioxide emissions from electric generation in New England dropped 26%, while nitrogen oxide emissions declined 66% and sulfur dioxide emissions declined 9%, a decline that can be attributed to the transition away from carbon-intensive fuel sources such as coal and oil to less carbon-intensive fuel sources such as natural gas and renewables.  Further, choosing domestically produced natural gas helps shield businesses and residents from price spikes that can result from dependence on foreign fuel sources such as oil. Our region is fortunate to have hundreds of employers that provide thousands of quality, high paying jobs for area residents. These men and women work hard every day to compete, despite the challenges and costs associated with operating in Connecticut.  We ask the members of the Energy & Technology Committee not to make it harder for employers to manage their energy costs or choose the energy source that is best for them.  We respectfully encourage the Energy & Technology Committee to oppose H.B. 5350. David Griggs President and CEO Hartford Chamber of Commerce dgriggs@metrohartford.com Phone: 860-525-4451 