Testimony of T. Michael Morrissey Director of GOVT Affairs – Business Development ALTERNATIVE FUELS COALITION OF CONNECTICUT 332 Strickland Street Glastonbury, CT 06033 860-280-8027 Morrissey.consulting@cox.net In Opposition to S.B. No. 354 AN ACT ESTABLISHING A GREEN NEW DEAL FOR CONNECTICUT Labor and Public Employees Committee Public Hearing March 3, 2020 Co-Chairs Julie Kushner and Robyn Porter and Members of the Labor and Public Employees Committee we are here today to speak in opposition to S.B. No. 354 An Act Establishing a Green New Deal for Connecticut. We oppose this bill due to its energy scope, which is limited to electricity only. One of anything is never a good idea. For example, there is good reason why commercial airlines have at least two engines. Our Coalition is a stake holder in our states three Clean Cities Programs. Our collective mission is to promote the use and adoption of six Federally recognized clean alternative fuels; Ethanol, Hydrogen, Biodiesel, Natural Gas, Propane and Electricity in the transportation sector where 41% of all our air pollution is occurring today. Propane for example is the third leading transportation fuel in the world powering over 27 million vehicles globally. In the United States alone, we now have close to 20,000 school buses powered by clean burning propane transporting over a million kids a day. Blue Bird Bus, the nations leading bus manufacturer, is now producing more propane powered buses than diesel ones for the first time in their history. In Connecticut alone, there are close to 600 propane powered school buses in operations today. This number will grow by an additional 72 once an unnamed city announces this month their budgeted plan to replace all their diesel buses with propane ones. Co-chairs Kushner & Porter & Senator Miner, you have approximately 200 propane buses operating in your districts at half the cost of diesel-powered buses. These buses are eligible for the 37 cent per gallon Federal Alt Fuels credit which was again restored this past December. Propane buses operate a half the cost of diesel ones. S.B. No. 354 would eliminate these savings in the districts you serve and jeopardize the cost and environmental savings in other districts who have opted to operate their school buses on propane. Transportation and its related emissions are detrimental to our society. We need to keep all six Federally endorsed clean alternative fuels in the mix to combat pollution today and in our future. One of anything is never a good thing and we urge your committee not to advance this “electric only” legislation. 