C:\Users\gibels\AppData\Local\Temp\notesEAD53A\letterhead_logo_Eversource_Energy_color.jpgTESTIMONY OF Margaret Morton VICE PRESIDENT – GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS EVERSOURCE ENERGY BEFORE THE LABOR AND PUBLIC EMPLOYEES COMMITTEE March 3, 2020 RE: Raised S.B. 354 -AN ACT ESTABLISHING A GREEN NEW DEAL FOR CONNECTICUT I am offering this testimony on S.B. 354 that was raised for public hearing. a. Background on Eversource. Eversource transmits and delivers electricity to 1.25 million customers in 149 municipalities in Connecticut; provides natural gas to 237,000 customers in 74 towns in Connecticut; and our affiliate (Aquarion Water Company) provides water service to 198,000 customers in 51 towns in Connecticut. Eversource harnesses the commitment of its approximately 8,000 employees across three states to build a single, united company around the mission of delivering reliable energy, natural gas and water service, and superior customer service. Eversource is also committed to leading the way toward a cleaner energy future for our customers. Our comprehensive approach includes initiatives that range from advancing the development of off-shore wind with our partner, Orsted; providing leading energy efficiency programs and services; and challenging ourselves with an industry-leading goal of reducing our carbon use in our facilities and operations to be carbon neutral by 2030. Thank you for the opportunity to comment upon the legislation before you. The Energy and Technology and Environment Committees are debating many of these same issues in their committees. The State agencies of DEEP and PURA have ongoing dockets and working groups which include various stakeholder groups attempting to tackle these complex climate change issues as we speak. Eversource is an active participant in the States’ pursuit of a green energy future but recognizes the economic challenges of going it alone. The Northeast region is a leader in clean energy and energy efficiency investment and programs. Establishing a proven track record of cost effective investment of electric ratepayer funds. We note that similar legislation is already on the books, to require a climate impact statement on all pieces of legislation. That legislation called for including a ratepayer impact statement on any legislation affecting ratepayers. Section 7(b) of Public Act 17-144 required ratepayer impact statements are provided on proposed legislation that would have a financial impact on ratepayers.1 1 Section 7(b) of Public Act 17-144 states, “(b) Beginning with the session of the General Assembly commencing on January 9, 2019, no bill without a ratepayer impact statement appended thereto which, if passed, would have a 1 We applaud Connecticut policy makers in their focus upon ratepayer impacts in their pursuit of viable climate change initiatives. We believe the transparency of governmental initiatives is enhanced when it obtains input from the relevant agency leadership of DEEP and PURA, the Office of Consumer Counsel that represents all ratepayers in our State, and other key stakeholders concerning these on-going discussions. I would ask that you hold off on this proposal at this time, and join the on-going dialogue at DEEP and PURA in pursuing your objectives. As numerous stakeholders are already familiar and engaged in those on-going debates as to next steps in our climate initiatives. Thank you for the opportunity to comment on this proposed bill. financial impact on electric ratepayers, shall be acted upon by either house of the General Assembly unless said requirement of a ratepayer impact statement is dispensed with by a vote of at least two-thirds of such house. Such statement shall (1) be prepared by the Office of Fiscal Analysis; and (2) provide an assessment as to whether such bill will have a significant direct financial impact on the cost of electricity to the majority of Connecticut electric ratepayers.” 2 