March 4, 2020 Energy & Technology Committee Connecticut General Assembly Senator Needleman, Representative Arconti, Honorable Members of the Energy and Technology Committee: The Chamber of Commerce, Inc., Windham Region represents about 400 businesses and eighteen communities in Northeast Connecticut.  We are comprised mostly of small businesses that represent all industries, and our municipalities. As the President and CEO of the Chamber, I represent these businesses and their employees and we are writing in opposition to HB 5350, An Act Concerning Natural Gas Infrastructure. We respectfully request that you reject this bill for the following reasons: 1. We believe the bill will have a negative effect on the state’s infrastructure that supports, retains and recruits new business. It would eliminate the expansion of natural gas in the state and thus force anyone not already using natural gas to rely on more expensive forms of energy. 2. Natural gas is a cost-effective energy option this is available in other states. Limiting its use in CT will make our state less competitive. Businesses will evaluate energy costs when deciding whether they should move to or state, expand in our state or remain in our state. 3. Limiting its expansion will lead to an increase in energy costs for businesses, municipalities and residents. Our state already suffers from some of the highest energy costs in the country. 4. The bill will not help reduce energy usage, people will just use more electricity. 5. It will not reduce carbon emissions. In fact it will increase carbon emissions from the transport of LNG from neighboring states via diesel fueled trucks. The Chamber of Commerce, Inc., Windham Region respectfully requests that you reject HB 5350 An Act Concerning Natural Gas Infrastructure. If you would like additional information or discussion please contact me at the number provided.  Thank you for your consideration of our request. Sincerely, Diane Nadeau, President & CEO The Chamber of Commerce, Inc., Windham Region Serving the towns of: Ashford, Andover, Bolton, Brooklyn, Canterbury, Chaplin, Columbia, Coventry, Eastford, Franklin, Hampton, Hebron, Lebanon, Mansfield, Scotland, Stafford, Tolland, Union, Willington, and Windham 