TESTIMONY OF DAVID GABLE PRESIDENT HOCON GAS, INC. 6 ARMSTRONG RD. 3RD FLOOR SHELTON, CT 06484 DGABLE@HOCONGAS.COM IN OPPOSITION TO S.B. No. 354 AN ACT ESTABLISHING A GREEN NEW DEAL FOR CONNECTICUT LABOR AND PUBLIC EMPLOYEES COMMITTEE PUBLIC HEARING MARCH 3, 2020 Senator Kushner, Representative Porter and members of the Labor and Public Employees Committee, my name is David Gable. I am the president of Hocon Gas, a 3rd generation Shelton Connecticut based family owned propane distributor employing 120 people with operations in Danbury, Guilford, Norwalk, Suffield, Torrington and Waterbury. Although I applaud the Committee for taking air quality and global warming very seriously, in my opinion Senate Bill No. 354 fails to take much into consideration. This State already pays the second highest electricity rate in the nation, with the first being Hawaii. The condition of our existing power distribution grid is aging, its condition is tenuous and the cost to upgrade the grid will be enormous. Connecticut has not fared well with regard to the employment statistics since the last stock market correction in 2008 and I feel legislation such as this will further increase the cost of living here, preventing the growth we so desperately need and unfairly burden low income and retired residents, further pushing them to leave. Although our main business is supplying propane for conventional uses such as heat, hot water and cooking, propane is extensively used for back-up power generation when the grid fails, for combined heat and power systems and for internal combustion engines. If this legislation were to put the propane industry out of business, who will be there to rise to the occasion to assist the state, municipalities and homeowners with fuel for those generators in times of need? What is going to power the electric chargers being installed around the state if the power grid goes down? People with electric cars in California were stranded when the grid was pre-emptively shut down. A gas furnace today is approximately 96% efficient and although electricity is 100% efficient at the point of use, a power plant is generally 25-30% efficient and the wires which carry the power to the end user lose some 75% of the energy it is intended to deliver. Although the intent of this proposed legislation is to reduce the amount of carbon being released by fossil fuels, the propane and fuel oil industries are hard at work coming up with bio based products too. Currently bio propane is being produced in Europe at a plant in Amsterdam, one in Louisiana and another in Los Angeles. Bill Gates along with Michael Bloomberg and Richard Branson are working on a synthetic palm oil product to replace the palm oil being used to displace the trans-fat in our food which may also be suitable for replacing diesel fuel in the near future and current model Bluebird propane powered school buses are already 90% cleaner than current 2020 clean diesel standards. Those propane buses which have replaced diesel buses in some 12 Connecticut towns and cities cost about $100,000. A similar electric school bus is $300,000 and it uses diesel fuel for heat. What board of education can afford to spend that kind of money on a school bus? The short answer to this date is none. I agree we should all be concerned with global warming and rising sea levels, I am. But this legislation picks winners and losers and the science may just not yet be there yet to make the determination that an all-electric world will answer our problems. I would be happy to answer any questions. Respectfully submitted, David Gable 