lfi;lmlil
185 Main Street, Suite 423  | New Britain, CT 06051 Phone:  860.229.1665 |  FAX:  860.223.8341 Greater New Britain Chamber of Commerce Statement to Energy & Technology Committee Connecticut General Assembly March 3, 2020 Senator Needleman, Representative Arconti, Honorable Members of the Energy and Technology Committee, My name is William D. Moore. I am the President and CEO of the Greater New Britain Chamber of Commerce. The Greater New Britain Chamber of Commerce is comprised of businesses primarily located in New Britain, Berlin and Plainville. These businesses are leaders in their respective fields, ranging from large international corporations to small, sole proprietor entrepreneurial enterprises. Their classifications are representative of all industries in Connecticut. I am pleased to present you with comments related to HB 5350, An Act Concerning Natural Gas Infrastructure. The Greater New Britain Chamber of Commerce opposes the measure and respectfully urges you to reject it. HB 5350 will have a negative effect on the state’s infrastructure that promotes the retention and recruitment of businesses. Our specific concerns are: • The bill will stifle competition by prohibiting the most cost-effective energy option • Businesses and consumers currently not on a natural gas network will be forced to continue to use significantly more expensive fuels • Limiting natural gas expansion would lead to an increase in the energy cost to operate taxpayer-supported buildings like schools and libraries • Businesses and consumers should have the widest choice of heating and cooling options, not be limited; competition drives down costs • HB 5350 not help the state to achieve its intent of reducing carbon emissions, nor will it help reduce energy use • Restricting natural gas expansion will actually increase the carbon footprint by requiring the use of diesel fuel to transport LNG into the state, a much more costly and less environmentally friendly option • The state will not achieve desired carbon reductions because increased electricity will be required from the region’s electric power plants • The measure would limit the length of time a natural gas utility has to recover its investments from natural gas expansion, creating uncertainty in the market as to pricing. For these and other reasons, the Greater New Britain Chamber of Commerce respectfully urges the Energy & Technology Committee to reject the measure. Thank you for the opportunity to present our concerns about HB 5350, An Act Concerning Natural Gas Infrastructure to you. Please let me know if I can provide you with any additional information regarding our concerns about this bill. 