Testimony of Stephen G. Rosentel, President of Leahy’s Fuels CT Labor and Employees Committee RB 354 An Act Establishing the Green New Deal for Connecticut March 3, 2020 My name is Stephen G. Rosentel. I am President of Leahy’s Fuels, a residential and commercial heating fuel supplier in Danbury CT now celebrating our 103rd year in business. I am here in opposition to RB 354 An Act Establishing the Green New Deal for Connecticut. I am surprised that this raised bill is coming forward from this committee instead of perhaps the energy committee. I assume it is because of the bills stated purpose: “To create jobs and transition the state to a clean, renewable energy economy.” I agree that climate change is made worse by the numbers and actions of humans and the world needs to address this fact. Where we disagree is how best to make the changes. We are a small state that is already not competitive with adjoining states in recovering jobs lost in the latest downturn. High taxes and energy costs are often cited as major factors. This bill will increase both by raising the cost of state government and energy. Renewable energy is here and currently supplying less than 20% of the current electrical demand load in New England. This is with years of federal tax credits and subsidies from other rate-payers. ISO NE is reporting a fuel mix of 50% natural gas and 31% nuclear. Assuming that you are not suggesting building new nuclear facilities despite the fact that virtually all are near or past their original engineered lives, it will take a massive renewables push just to replace nuclear let alone the half produced by natural gas, while also displacing the heating oil, propane, gasoline and diesel with the corresponding load increase this would create. The 1st Comprehensive Energy Strategy targeted the replacement of our fuels with natural gas. The 2nd CES no longer is promoting natural gas but has switched to electrification. If half of your electricity is being produced by natural gas, isn’t that promoting natural gas? But let’s imagine for a moment that this is all doable. Surely the path to this goal will not be a straight line and during this transition there will be massive disruption made worse if done at the state level because of state borders. Propane and bioheat deliverable product suppliers, like my company, will be the most impacted. My nearest propane competitor in New York State is less than 8 miles from my office. If the rules in CT are more costly than the rules in NY how do we compete with out-of-state competitors crossing into our state and disregarding the rules? You cannot control what the NY legislators will do no more than NY can control PA and PA can’t control Ohio etc. My fellow dealers near the MA and RI borders could have a similar problem. This would cost CT jobs! The right solution is to use environmental science to its fullest including life-cycle analysis (which CT currently does not do) and advocate for a national plan so as not to create yet another reason for our companies to be recruited out of CT to a more business friendly state. Please do not allow this comprehensive and poorly thought out legislation to move forward. I will be happy to answer any questions. 