TESTIMONY BEFORE THE LABOR AND PUBLIC EMPLOYEES COMMITTEE LEGISLATIVE OFFICE BUILDING MARCH 3, 2020 My name is Shannon King, government affairs associate for CBIA, the Connecticut Business and Industry Association. CBIA is Connecticut’s largest business organization, with thousands of member companies, small and large, representing a diverse range of industries from across the state. Ninety-five percent of our member companies are small businesses, with less than 100 employees. CBIA opposes SB 354 An Act Establishing a Green New Deal for Connecticut in its current form. Climate change has, and will, significantly impact how business is done in our state and around the world. Connecticut employers continue to implement their own innovative sustainability, energy efficiency, and climate change mitigation strategies and we applaud their efforts. While we appreciate the committee’s urgency and focus on this critical issue, we would like to address concerns with this legislation as it is drafted. First, energy costs are one of the most important considerations for running a business in Connecticut. Our state has some of the highest energy costs in the nation—62% higher than the national average. Businesses of all sizes and industries need stability and predictability in managing operating costs. While the cost of renewable energy is declining, renewable sources remain more expensive and less reliable than other generation sources. Accordingly, as this legislation develops, we urge the committee and members of the General Assembly to recognize and consider the potential impact new energy and environmental policies have on ratepayers and ensure transparency around potential price increases on commercial as well as residential customers. Second, portions of this legislation pose significant mandates on the Department of Energy and Environmental Protection. The extensive regulatory schedules and mandates for adopting new regulations on reducing emissions laid in this legislation will create significant burdens on DEEP, as well as the regulated community. For example, subsection 1(b)(1), combined with subsection (1)(f), would require DEEP to adopt up to 11 sets of regulations. We urge the committee and members of the General Assembly to consider DEEP’s current and future resources in the discussion of state-level climate change policy, and to support and help facilitate DEEP’s 20 by 20 initiative which delivers services, reforms regulations, and completes projects using new technology, lean practices, and thoughtful policymaking. Lastly, we urge the committee and members of the General Assembly to keep the distribution of the Conversation and Load Management funded resources proportional to residential and commercial contributions. Subsection 4(h) proposes to give a higher priority to funding energy efficiency projects for low and moderate income households. CBIA supports this focus, but only to the degree such reallocation of dollars occurs within the residential component of the overall CL&M budget. In other words, revenue collected from commercial and industrial customers should not be redirected to residential customers. We look forward to collaborating with the committee and members of the General Assembly on this important legislation. Thank you for your time and the opportunity to testify. 