TESTIMONY OF AVANGRID (UI, SCG, CNG) TO THE LABOR AND PUBLIC EMPLOYEES COMMITTEE March 3, 2020 Raised S.B. 354 -AN ACT ESTABLISHING A GREEN NEW DEAL FOR CONNECTICUT My name is Al Carbone, and I am the Manager of Connecticut State Government Relations/Economic & Community Development for Orange-based AVANGRID, the parent company for United Illuminating (UI), Southern Connecticut Gas (SCG) and Connecticut Natural Gas (CNG). AVANGRID has two business companies. Avangrid Networks combines the resources and expertise of eight electric and natural gas utilities with a rate base of $9.1 billion serving approximately 3.2 million customers in New York and New England.  Avangrid Renewables owns and operates approximately 7.1 GW of generation capacity, primarily through wind and solar, in 22 states. It is one of the nation's largest producers of wind energy. AVANGRID’s three Connecticut-based utility companies (UI, SCG, CNG) employ more than 1,400 Connecticut residents, and pay more than $77 million in property taxes each year to the municipalities they serve.    We respectfully offer this testimony regarding Raised Senate Bill 354 AN AN ACT ESTABLISHING A GREEN NEW DEAL FOR CONNECTICUT. AVANGRID appreciates the spirit behind SB 354, but has serious concerns about the cost that some of these policies will have on our electric ratepayers.  The provision of the bill that would require a climate impact statement on all pieces of legislation is of particular interest considering the legislature passed similar legislation in 2017 about including a ratepayer impact statement in any legislation.  Public Act 17-144 required ratepayer impact statements are provided on proposed legislation that would have a financial impact on ratepayers. Unfortunately, the legislature has failed to abide by this law which was intended to create transparency in how legislation impacts electric rates.  While climate impacts statements could be a valuable tool in deterring legislation that would have a negative impact on the climate, it’s important that this legislature also value our ratepayers and the high costs that are imposed on them by legislation like this.  If you have questions, I can be reached at (203) 671-4421 or albert.carbone@avangrid.com. 