necsema New£ogland Store MarketersConvenience& Energy Association March 3, 2020 Testimony of Jonathan Shaer Executive Director, New England Convenience Store &Energy Marketers Association Connecticut Gen era I Assembly Committee on Labor and Public Employees HB 354-An Act Establishing A Green New Deal For Connecticut Statement of OPPOSITION Chairwoman Kushner, Chairwoman Porter, and Members of the Committee, The New England Convenience Store &Energy Marketers Association (NECSEMA) represents the interests of single site and chain convenience retailers, transportation fuels distributors and the businesses which supply them in Connecticut and throughout New England. According to the National Association of Convenience Stores, Connecticut is home to almost 1,700 convenience stores employing over 25,000 people and accounting for approximately $6.5 billion in total sales. NECSEMA members provide the products and services their customers want, often when they need them the most. As customer demand for fuel choice evolves, the industry will adapt along-side them ensuring their needs are met. To that end, NECSEMA is not opposed to practical policies intended to reduce greenhouse gas emissions (GHG), however, we must strongly oppose HB 354 because of the impracticality of the plan -or lack thereof. HB 354 expounds upon the already ambitious deadlines established in 2018 GWSA, and goes further by establishing new deadlines for reducing greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) from 2001 levels from all sectors of the economy. Specifically, eliminating GHG emissions from the electric, transportation and building sectors by 2045. No other New England State has proposed targets with such aggressive deadlines for one sector, let alone across three major economic sectors. In an effort to address GHG emission reduction, certain states have set reduction targets then statutorily bound themselves to hitthose targets_by dates certain. They did this without a plan to actually hit the targets. That's their mistake, let's not let it be Connecticut's too. Prudent policy making doesn't establish audacious goals then kick the obligation to others to figure out how to achieve them. Therefore, is imperative we (a) identify what is indeed the best course of action among all options, and stakeholders, and (b) ensure that it is perfectly designed. Too many people and businesses are at stake to proceed unless the answers to both of these questions are known. At this time, it is clear HB 354 is legislation without a detailed plan. I 044 Central Street, Suite 203 Stoughton, MA 02072 (781) 297-9600 