TOWN OF EAST WINDSOR FIRST SELECTMAN JASON E. BOWSZA Testimony in opposition to HB 5350: AN ACT CONCERNING NATURAL GAS INFRASTRUCTURE Senator Needleman, Representative Arconti, and honorable members of the Energy and Technology Committee: I am writing today in opposition to HB 5350, AN ACT CONCERNING NATURAL GAS INFRASTRUCTURE. My objection to the bill is specific to Section 2 of the bill. Economic development is a high priority in my community, and a key piece of that success is the ability to extend utility connections to areas identified for development. In the case of East Windsor, one of our major corridors identified for development would need to extend a natural gas line. Accelerating the time imposed on utility companies to recover extension costs will inevitably be passed on to utility customers, further adding to Connecticut's reputation as a state in which it is difficult to do business. Towns are limited in their ability to incentivize development as it is, and additional cost instability or excess only hinders municipal efforts to expand grand lists. I am concerned that passage of this legislation would deprive consumers of lower-cost, cleaner energy options and relegate them to use oil (which is more harmful) or electricity (which is more expensive). Additionally, disincentives for infrastructure expansion would deprive municipalities of the ability to tax pipes and equipment, and limit access of municipal facilities to natural gas as an energy option. Availability of natural gas infrastructure is truly needed in the state, but my concern is that by shortening the recovery time -rather than extending it -this legislation would inadvertently hinder economic development in Connecticut by adding to the cost businesses would face by locating here. I ask that the committee consider the impact section 2 would have on economic development as we look to encourage economic development in the state. 11 Rye Street, Broad Brook, CT 06016 www.eastwindsorct.com Telephone(860) 623-8122 EAST WINDSOR IS AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY PROVIDER AND EMPLOYER 