Massachusetts Petroleum Council A Division of the American Petroleum Institute Stephen C. Dodge, Executive Director David J.O'Donnell, .Associate Director October 10, 2017 Senator Cindy Friedman, Senate Chair Representative Jerald A. Parisella, House Chair Joint Committee on Public Sen,ice Room 156, State House Boston, MA 02133 Chairman Friedman, Chairman Parisella and Members of the Committee: Thank you for the opportunity to offer testimony in opposition to H3281 -An Act Relative to Pub.lic Investment in Fossil Fuels. I am providing testimony on behalf of the l\fassachusetts Petroleum Council, a division of the American Petroleum Institute, or APL API is a national trade association representing over 625 companies engaged in all aspects of the oil and natural gas business. The legislation would basically prohibit the Pension Rese1ves Investment Management Board from investing the assets of the public retirement systems under its control in fossil fuel companies, and would require the Board to divest from the direct ownership of any publicly traded securities in such companies within 3 years as recommended by the special commission created in the legislation. Fos.sil fuel company is defined as a company "identified by a Global Industty Classification System code in one of the following sectors: (1) coal and consumable fuels; (2) integrated oil and gas; (3) oil and gas exploration and production." The basic moral argument for divesting from fossil fuel companies appears to be that fossil fuels contribute to climate change and climate change is bad for the environment; therefore, fossil fuel companies are bad and should be divested from. And, while fossil fuel companies could theoretically switch to profitable renewables-based models, they will not do so without government inte1Yention such as divestment by public pension funds. In Febrnary of 2017 the Vermont Pension Investment Committee released a report entitled "Cli.mate Risk Divestment Discussion" tliat addressed the impact on its investment portfolio of divest.ment from fossil fuels. 1 111e report analyzed such divestment witl1in tl1e context of comparison to peer public pension fund actions regarding climate change issues. Its autl1ors determined that: 1 Climate Risk Divestment Discussion, February 8, 2017 at http://www.vermonttreasurer.gov/sites /treasurer/filcs/VPIC/PDF /2017 /PCA Climate Divestment Repo rt for VPIC.pdf. 11 Beacon Street, Suite 1230 ¥ Boston,MA 02108 (617) 227-4227 l\1assachusetts Petroleum Council A Division of the .American Petroleum Institute ¥ Divestment from fossil fuels is a sparsely used strategy among U.S. public pension plans, in.cluding by those plans that are active on potential climate change risks to their invesUnent portfolios; ¥ Divestment has little proven irupact on fossil fuel corporate policies, or on government poli.cies; ¥ DivesUnent has not been shown to be in tl1e best interest of Vermont's pension beneficiar.ies; ¥ Divestment does not address climate change risks evident in other industries such as infra.strncture and agriculture; and ¥ Divesting from fossil fuel companies actually increases invesunents in sectors whose prod.ucts and services generate demand for fossil fuel energy, including utilities and transporta.tion, and in sectors tliat generate significant CO2 emissions, such as construction. T11e report's autl1ors ultimately concluded tl1at proxy voting and engagement efforts on climate risk issues at fossil fuel companies, as well as additional investment strategies, are better suited than di.vestment for tl1e fiducia1y of a U.S. public pension fund to influence co1porate behavior concerning climate change. It has become somewhat fashionable to cast fossil fuels in a negative light. Yet tl1ere are enormous social benefits to using fossil fuels, such as poverty reduction and increased mass mobility of peoples and goods that continue to tlus day and will for tl1e foreseeable future. If fossil fuel use were to end tomorrow, tl1e economic consequences would be catastropluc (starvation would follow, for exam.ple, as tractors' fuel tanks ran dry). Petroleum-based personal care, food, clotlung, and packaging products feature heavily in tl1e daily lives of billions of people. Eve1y day, refineries separate petro.leum into tl1e petrochemicals used in more tl1an 3,000 products, including toot!, brushes and make.up, road surface tar and otl1cr materials, roof slungles and PVC pipes, crayons and otl1er paraffin wax products, plastics, disposable plastic bottles, rnbber, fiberglass, detergents, paint, paint dunner, adhesives, clotlung, electronics, appliances, paper products, batteries and pharmaceuticals. Even so.lar panels and the blades on wind turbines are manufactured using petrochemical derivatives. 2 Overall world energy consumption is projected to grow at an annual average rate of 1.4% tl1rough 2040. By 2040, fossil fuels, including petroleum and natural gas, arc projected to account for 78% of total world energy consumption. And, as most of the scientific community represented on tl1e Inter.governmental Panel on Climate Change agreed as recently as 2014 that otl1er energy sources, includ.2 All chemicals and liquefied petroleum gas start with oil, coal or natural gas. Most refineries only produce some base petrochemicals or petrochemical feedstocks. Chemical plants use base petrochemicals to make derivatives. Derivatives are then further developed into consumer itetns and other products. www.ap1.org Page 2 Massachusetts Petroleum Council A Division of the American Petroleum lnstihtte ing natural gas, arc likely to prove indispensable in the ongoing global effort to combat climate changc. 3 By comparison, in the case of divesting from tobacco companies, tobacco as a product was a per.sonal luxuq product that produced no such countervailing social benefit, and the product was not integrated into almost every aspect of modern life in a manner similar to fossil fuel products. TI1ere.fore, while tobacco's harm was "unjustified," to use the language of the standard for divestment, it is more difficult to argue that the harm produced by fossil fuels has been unjustified as well. Ha1vard's President Drew Faust noted this ethical diletntna in her justification for not supporting divestment, finding it a "troubling inconsistency" that "as an investor, we should boycott a whole class of companies at the same time that, as individuals and as a community, we are extensively rely.ing on those companies' products and services for so much of what we do eve1y day." Moreover, most of the major energy companies have publicly acknowledged that climate change is happening and is caused by humankind. Several large energy companies came out in support of the Paris Agreement in 2015, and others, including Shell, BP, and Statoil signed the 2012 Carbon Price Cotntnunique in favor of putting a global price on carbon. And the industry has long been involved in renewable energy and particularly in developing the technologies to make them viable energy al.ternatives. Since 2000, the natural gas and oil industty has invested $15 billion in nonhydrocarbon technologies -including wind, solar, biofuels and geothermal technologies. That investment is just part of the $90 billion the industty invested between 2000 and 2014 in zero-and low-carbon emis.sions technologies.4 And, while some might see fossil fuel company investments in renewable energy as "token efforts," others believe that climate risk "occurs against [the) backdrop of opportunity," 3 Sec IPCC, 2014: "Summary for Policymakers," In: Climate Change 2014: lvlitigation of Climate Change. Contribution of Working Group III to the Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Cli.mate Change: GHG emissions from energy supply can be reduced significantly by replacing current world average coal-fired power plants with modern, highly efficient natural gas combined-cycle power plants or combined heat and power plants, provided that natural gas is available and the fugitive emissions associated with extraction and supply are low or mitigated (robust evi.dence, high agreement). In mitigation scenarios reaching about 450 ppm C02eq concentra.tions by 2100, natural gas power generation without CCS acts as a bridge technology, with deployment increasing before peaking and falling to below current levels by 2050 and declin.ing further in the second half of tl1c century (robust evidence, high agreement). [7.5.1, 7.8, 7.9, 7.11, 7.12]. 4 Thomas Tanton, "Key Investments in Greenhouse Gas Jvlitigation Technologies from 2000 through 2014 by Oil and Gas Firms, Other Industry and the Federal Government," APL http:/ /www.api.org/ ~/media/ files/ chs/ climate-change/2015-t2-key-invcstments-in-ghg-mitigation.pdf Page3www.api.org Massachusetts Petroleum Council A Division of the American Petroleum Institute and that large oil and natural gas companies will be heavily involved in developments of new tech.nology. 5 Given that, then, should all such companies be divested from, including those that have responded favorably to environmental shareholder activism, are reporting and reducing their emissions, and have diversified product offerings? Oil and natural gas are not the only products that have contrib.uted to rising greenhouse gas emissions. Using fossil fuel companies as scapegoats without address.ing the systemic issue of decarbonizing all of society risks allowing the other contributors to contin.ue with business as usual.6 Governmental bodies both at the state and federal level must weigh the trade-offs, and it is a balanc.ing act, between curbing carbon emissions (which we must continue to do) while protecting eco.nomic growth. We cannot ignore either. Both private markets and governments must continue to collaborate to create a reliable and clean energy system in Massachusetts. s See Daniel Abbasi, How Activists Should Engage Fossil Fuel Companies, INS'TITUTIONAL INV'R: UNCONVENTIONAL \VISDOM Gan. 17, 2014), https://perma.cc/BSK6-LTLQ (arguing that fossil fuel companies are too integrated into the global economy for governments to permit a massive write down, and that "[I]he world may not be able to transition urgently to a low-carbon economy witl1out harnessing [fossil fuel companies'] cash flow, political power, and large-scale execution capabilities.") 6 Sec Climate Risk Divestment Discussion, supra at 24: Buildings account for about 30 percent of emissions, about half of which comes from the "embodied" carbon emissions of the building itself -the energy it takes to make the building materials, transport them and build the building. P01tla11dmm11tah11e far five penwt ofallacco1111ts carbo11emissions1voddwide(emphasis added). Steel and aluminum require intense industrial heat to manufacture. Lmnbcr, in general, needs to stay in the ground as trees to sequester as much atmospheric carbon as possible. With the world in the midst of an unprecedented pe.riod of urbanization, and three billion people set to enter the global middle class in the com.ing decades, emissions from construction are at an all-time high. See also "Statement of the Yale Corporation Committee on Investor Responsibility," Yale University, August 27, 2014. http:// secretaty.yale.cdu/sitcs/ default/files/files/CCIR%20Statement.pdf. Targeting a segment of the fossil fuel extractive industry (the supply side) for potential di.vestment largely on account of emissions by other actors downstream from them, while ig.noring the direct contribution by individuals, businesses, government agencies, nonprofit and other organizations tl1at emit CO2 by burning fossil fuels (the demand side), in our view is misdirected. And it docs nothing to improve public or private policies that arc capable of addressing the problem, either in the United States or globally, including by incentivizing the substitution or development of technologies and behaviors tliat may ameliorate GHG buildup. www.ap1.org Page4 l'viassachusetts Petroleum Council A Division of the American Petroleum Institute For all of the above-stated reasons, I urge the Committee to report this bill as "ought not to pass." I appreciate this opportunity to provide comments and would be happy to provide any further infor.mation to you or your sL~ff if needed. Very truly yours, David]. O'Donnell Associate Director www.api.org Page 5 