Rittershaus, Alexander (HOU) From: Keenan, John -Rep. (HOU) Sent: Tuesday, December 03, 2013 12:59 PM To: Eicher, Christopher, (HOU); Holland, Liam (HOU); Rittershaus, Alexander (HOU) Subject: FW: Strongly Against H.2980 & S.1591 -An Act Relative to Wind Siting -MG From: Mike Leonard [mailto:mike@northquabbinforestry.com] Sent: Tuesday, December 03, 2013 7:53 AM To: Downing, Benjamin (SEN); Keenan, John -Rep. (HOU); Rnegold, Barry(SEN); Cusack, Marie -Rep (HOU); Donoghue, Eileen (SEN); Pacheco, Marc R (SEN); Eldridge, James (SEN); Tarr, Bruce E (SEN); Rogers, John -Rep. (HOU); Timilty, Walter -Rep. (HOU); Benson, Jennifer -Rep. (HOU); Mahoney, John -Rep (HOU); Hunt, Randy -Rep (HOU); Golden, Thomas -Rep. {HOU); DiNatale, Stephen -Rep. (HOU); Chan, Tackey -Rep {HOU); zorzin@mass.rr.com Subject: Strongly Against H.2980 & S.1591-An Act Relative to Wind Siting To all the Members of the Joint Committee on Telecommunications, Utilities, and Energy: I would like to register my strong opposition to H.2980 & S.1591. Below is an excerpt from my editorial published last week in the Greenfield Recorder -https://www.wind.watch.org/news/2013/11/26/power-down-on-wind-solar/ In recent years, we have seen many solar projects and wind turbines constructed or have been proposed across the state. None of these projects would be built or proposed if not for the very generous subsidies granted by our state and federal governments. But are they really worth it? Both wind and solar produce energy only when the wind is blowing or the sun is shining. This production of intermittent energy means that baseload power plants, such as natural gas, need to constantly be ramped up and down to accommodate this intermittent energy. This is very inefficient and wastes a lot of energy. Studies have shown that this "cycling" actually increases CO2 emissions and def eats the purpose of the RPS. Land-based wind turbines are located on high elevations where wind speeds are highest. But large roads have to be constructed to the top, where pristine mountain ecosystems, including the headwaters of many streams that provide our drinking water, are destroyed to build the giant 400-foot wind turbines. In addition, thousands of songbirds, rare eagles and hawks, as well as insect-eating bats, are killed by the spinning blades. Transmission lines through mature forests also have to be clearcut to connect the turbines to the power grid. For people living near a wind turbine, they often suffer health effects called "wind turbine syndrome," while the value of their property declines substantially. In Massachusetts, state government is pushing a new wind-siting law that will circumvent local zoning and other environmental regulations to build more than 300 wind turbines, obliterate 70 miles of ridgeline, and destroy 33 mountain ecosystems. The offshore project called "Cape Wind" will cost a staggering $4 billion and produce a paltry 143 MW of power, making it the most expensive power in the country. A natural gas plant can produce three times the power at one-tenth the cost. ~aking power more expensive will drive more jobs out of the state. 1 ft's bad'enough the state crushed the forestry/biomass sector and killed over 2,000 jobs, now you might give a free pass to Big Wind to destroy more forest land and mountain ecosystems! Yes I am a consulting forester in my own business. I strongly support more markets for forest biomass" See my blog at .http:/ /northguabbinforestry.com/2010/ 12/14/forest-biomass-markets-promote-great-forestry/ But DCR continues to issue permits for destructive liquidation cuttings -http://northguabbinforestry.com/liguidation.cutting/ So on the one hand you stopped us from expanding our improvement cuttings while you still allow DCR to approve liquidation cuttings and now you'll be giving a blank check for more forest destruction if H.2980 passes. This makes absolutely no sense! If you are interested in supporting forestry, then help us provide more markets for low grade timber and you'll see more great forestry like this: https://www.facebook.com/media/set/?set=a.565717060175138.l073741830.l07694529310729&type=-1 More forestry photo albums here: https://www.facebook.com/MikeLeonardConsultingForester/photos albwns Our forestry work: encourages landowners to keep their land in forest; improves their forest & property values; provides for many jobs right up the production chain; and provides a source of clean renewable energy such as biomass, firewood, and wood for the production of wood pellets as well as other forest products. This is what you should be supporting but you're not Hey if you are interested in learning more about forestry, come to a forestry field trip I'm sponsoring in Petersham. Meet at the Petersham Country Store at 8 AM on Friday Dec.13 and we'll drive to a recent improvement cutting we just finished in my town. In conclusion, it's time to pull the plug on subsidizing these highly destructive imported wind turbines and solar panels and instead support "Made in Massachusetts" biomass! Regards, Mike Leonard, Consulting Forester North Quabbin Forestry-http://northquabbinforestry.com/ 35 Leighton Road Petersham, MA 01366 2 