 as world leaders talk about the possibility of a new world order emerging from recent political events, we are convinced that a new conservation order must emerge as an inseparable companion. the same forces of international communications, commerce, and travel that help us realize how we must somehow learn to live in peace also demonstrate thal there can be no environmental security for one nation unless the environment is safe for all. global climate change although scientifically debatable, and virtually impossible to predict with any sense of certainty is nonetheless a top-of-the- ticket issue in international circles. every international negotiation discusses how the threat of global climate change means changes in forests, and new challenges for citizens and foresters everywhere. through the global releaf campaign, afa has established itself as a leading participant in the forestry aspects of the global environmental challenge. in so doing, we have bitten off the largest challenge in the association’s history. people and organizations all over the world are asking for information, wanting to become involved in campaigns like global releaf, looking for practical, do-able solutions for problems that, at times, seem too huge to comprehend, let alone address. extraordinary situations call for extraordinary efforts, and we believe that the last decade of this century offers that challenge. as citizens dedicated to the improvement of the environment through better understanding and management of trees and forests, we’re well aware that all the world’s problems won't be solved with more and better trees. but we're also aware that some problems--including some very important ones can, indeed, be solved this way. so we’re dedicated to the goal of motivating and educating people to take positive actions to improve their environment wherever better trees and forests are needed. we believe, if we pursue this mission with vigor, that afa will continue to attract the support of more people, businesses, and governments worldwide to the conservation cause, and that our grandchildren’s children will live in a better world because we were here, doing what we do best.