 the northeast washington forest vision 2020 collaborative project is one of the high priority restoration projects funded outside of cflr. the kettle river range is a meeting place for the forests of the cascade and rocky mountains, a diverse haven for elk, mule deer, redband cutthroat, bull trout, canada lynx, pileated woodpecker, and pine marten. the project is using brush removal, small diameter tree thinning, and controlled burns to decrease the risk of destructive mega-fires across the 124,396 acre project. these activities are also producing material for local sawmills and secondary manufacturers, as well as provide biomass for a local power producer. russ vaagen has lived in the colville area for nearly all of his life. he was born and raised 10 miles from town adjacent to colville national forest lands. growing up, he spent countless hours hiking, fishing, hunting and recreating in northeast washington. today vaagen lives near colville and is working hard to keep the area’s forests healthy for future generations. he pursues this as president of the northeast washington forestry coalition (newfc), a non-profit group collaborating on national forest issues, and as vice president of vaagen bros. lumber, inc., a 60 year old company that specializes in small logs and produces lumber from forest thinning. “bringing people together to work on these issues is a great way to drive innovation and provide a catalyst for more great work in the future, especially as we learn how to do it even better,” says vaagen. newfc has successfully collaborated on approximately 30 projects on the colville national forest. the northeast washington forest vision 2020 hprp complements the coalition’s efforts by focusing work on a large, yet specific area in the kettle river range and surrounding mountains. this project will create direct jobs on the ground and provide much needed supply to local sawmills, pulp mills, and co-generation power plants fueled by woody biomass, while reducing the threat of catastrophic wildfire to local communities. “landscape level projects are the best way to get meaningful work done on the ground,” vaagen offers. “cflr helps that happen and focuses on the larger issue rather than micro-managing.”