 dear afa member, it's a real pleasure to bring you this 1987 annual report. your association had an excellent year in 1987 in a variety of ways. i hope this brief report gives you some insight into what we are able to accomplish. obviously this is only a glimpse. but if you have been watching american forests as well you’ve probably got the picture. we're even more excited about 1988 and our program of accelerated conservation efforts. is a national forest and its management important in your life? watch for news about a new afa activity in your area friends of the national forest. this will give afa members a new and we hope very constructive way to help improve the communications between the constituents of each national forest the people organizations industries and communities who rely on the forest in a variety of ways. do you live in an area where urban and community forests are an important part of the quality of your life? afa and its programs are there too encouraging and eating citizens group local street park and other tree care programs and helping communities improve their forests and lower-cost to their taxpayers. do you feel tree planting is important? afa’s programs are encouraging people to plant trees for water quality improvement along the chesapeake bay window rows in control in the plains gully control in the south and future wood products on formerly eroding cropland. afa members are reforesting cutover lands and bringing beauty and grace to homes and yards everywhere. what about forest health? afa is working to encourage more research on the effects of all types of air pollution on forests and at the same time supporting additional pollution reductions to lower acid rain levels. acid rain is not seriously harming tree growth according to scientists but we feel the impact on streams and lakes is sufficient to warrant added pollution reduction. in addition we are encouraging new research and the possible development of new strategies to control one of the nation's most worrisome forest pests the gypsy moth. as you can see this is a big agenda for a relatively small conservation organization. we hope you feel it is a worthwhile effort and that you are pleased to be a part of it. we appreciate all the support of our members over the past year because that is what makes it all possible. sincerely neil sampson executive vice president