 dear afa member supporters and friends in 1988 the association's board of directors approved the launching of an ambitious new direction for the organization. we were well aware of the tradition embodied in over 100 years of conservation action and we asked ourselves what would the people who founded this organization do if they were in our shoes today answer loud and clear was that they would mount an all-out campaign to solve the most important conservation problem within their range of capability. so we asked ourselves what is that problem there was certainly no shortage of natural resource issues to tackle that list always seems endless. but which of those issues were really vital to the long-term future? we decided that the most critical issue facing the world today is the potential for unbalancing the major global systems that stabilize climate. while scientists can’t always agree on how global systems work we were convinced that humanity faces huge risks. those risks coupled with the issues clear connection to trees and forests makes this a subject that afa could not ignore. our strategy included a combination of science action and public relations and it was not arrived at without great debate among staff the board of directors and the members. in the end however it has three elements press scientific research as hard and fast as possible spur individual corporate and government action to plant and care for trees and forests and aggressively seek brought public attention to and support for these issues and activities. the results of course is that the global releaf campaign. and its first year 1989 it cost the association dearly. people loved the idea but financial support simply didn't materialize in a fa invested nearly one-fourth of its total reserves into getting the basic ideas in front of the american public. in late 8 1989 a concerned board of directors reviewed the situation another year or two of such heavy losses and afa’s very existence could be in jeopardy. was the whole idea off face or where we involved in a project that needed more time and investment and was too important to abandon? the board was united agreeing on the ladder. with little hesitation we kept moving straight ahead. the basic ideas were too vital for any other course of action. so, we must admit to a tremendous sense of gratification and relief as we review the events of 1990. our bold venture has become successful, in many ways beyond our fondest hopes. in addition to producing a seif-supporting basis for operations, global releaf became an important new source of revenue for important conservation action in dozens of community and forest situations. for the first time in over 115 years, afa began raising significant amounts of private money to directly affected trees, forests, and lands. this type of action program, in addition to our historic conservation education and policy advocacy functions, established a new level of tangible achievement, of which we are very proud. it all happened because of you our members and supporters. as you look through this report, we hope you'll take special pride in every activity and action, because you made it happen. over 112,000 individual afa members and supporters, 100 sponsoring companies, 300 cooperating private citizen organizations, and hundreds of government agencies at every level are responsible for the accomplishments that afa is able to report for 1990. our role, in the main, is still best described as that of a national catalystーa cheerleader, if you will. we've made the noise, but the people and the action organizations have done the work. for that, we can only say, ‘’thank you’ as we share this moment to recount and enjoy the gains that afa and its supporters and friends have jointly achieved, however, we must aiso remind you that the work is only started. the world needs more much more of the kind of positive, practical, can-do environmentalism that this report details. we have only just begun.