 american forests seeks to reconnect people to nature by emphasizing the life-giving benefits trees provide us all, especially clean air and water. we believe that to truly value trees, people must be awed not only by their size and beauty but by the life-sustaining properties they provide every day. american forests helps people understand, appreciate, and nurture trees through programs that: provide credible and timely information on the extent and condition of both urban and rural forests. provide policy analysis, testimony, and action- recommendations for improving forest conditions and increasing their extent. engage individuals and corporate sponsors to partner with american forests to restore forests across america through grants to local organizations. tell the stories of forests and their value to communities through our american forests magazine, forestbytes enewsletter, and other media outlets. in 2004, american forests helped communities learn about the value of trees and forests, and planted hundreds of thousands of trees from new york to california. we signed on a number of new sponsors for tree planting, including computershare, bc natural foods, kellogg’s/morningstar farms, and honda. many previous sponsors renewed their support, and we launched a campaign with the dale earnhardt foundation to honor the racing legend’s legacy by planting trees for wildlife conservation. in the aftermath of terrible wildfires in california, we gathered information and joined efforts with the u.s. forest service to raise support for replanting projects in 2005. actress sarah michelle gellar (at right) lent her name to our wildfire releaf campaign. through her ads in marie claire magazine with partner otc international, enough money was raised to plant 65,000 trees in california. the spectacular and beloved monarch butterfly overwinters in mexico’s threatened michoacan forests. to restore these precious forests, american forests is partnering with the michoacan restoration fund of mexico to plant trees and conduct gis analysis with partner esri to protect and restore monarch butterfly habitat. with the continuing sponsorship of the davey tree expert company, we published the 2004-2005 national register of big trees, a biennial listing of the largest of 826 native and naturalized species in the u.s. we are also working to improve access to the register online, making it even easier for the public to view, learn about, and nominate these champions of the tree world. it’s a fact that our cities need trees—an estimated 634 million trees, according to our research. we helped get the ball rolling in new york, where our ecosystem analyses of buffalo, syracuse, binghamton, poughkeepsie, and rochester showed these cities need a total of 1 million new trees to reach our recommended overall tree canopy goal of 40 percent. with the help of new york’s u.s. senator hillary clinton (below), hsbc, niagara- mohawk, starbucks, and eddie bauer, american forests provided 500 trees to each of these cities. trees were also on the mind of the environmentally minded folks at grocery chain heb, which celebrated its 100th anniversary by planting 100 trees for texas—direct descendants of the famous austin treaty oak—in cities across the lone star state. with a goal of ensuring texas’ future leaders grow up green-savvy, heb sponsored american forests’ citygreen environmental education/living classroom program in 40 texas schools. that unique environmental education program— which combines computer technology with tree planting and hands-on activities to teach students to value trees in their local areas—is also being taught in every school in washington, dc, with the help of the casey tree endowment fund. good tree policies start with an informed citizenry, and we conducted urban ecosystem analyses in montgomery, alabama; philadelphia, pennsylvania; and jacksonville, florida; and carried out more than 150 “rapid ecosystem analyses” on our website for cities and towns. these analyses document the loss of tree cover and help cities reverse those losses by appreciating their value, setting goals for tree canopy, and creating policies and programs to protect and replant trees. american forests’ forest policy center advocates for significant local actions through community- based forestry and serves as a voice for improved forest conservation policies. with that goal in mind, we provided testimony on the fy2004 proposed budget, a congressional hearing on post-fire restoration, and the president’s healthy forest restoration act. we also joined with other partners to identify long-term solutions to the problems of matching the needs of wildfire suppression activities and the costs. we joined with other environmental organizations to oppose the administration’s proposal to let states decide on opening roadless areas to logging. american forests believes that federal lands deserve the same protections everywhere. with support from the shared earth foundation, we convened the seventh annual week in washington for community-based partners, which helped them more effectively bring the voice of their communities to the halls of congress. as the year ended, american forests is even better positioned to reconnect people to nature by emphasizing the life-giving benefits of trees and forests.