 in the global releaf center, grants were awarded to 35 partners to restore forest ecosystems by planting 2.25 million trees in 18 states and 5 countries. from wildfires that burned from california to alabama, to illegal logging that devastated monarch butterfly sanctuaries in mexico, to denuded hillsides that reduced water flow in honduras, global releaf projects help local communities bring their forests back to life for many, diverse benefits. global releaf is supported by the members of american forests as well as by hundreds of innovative and environmentally friendly businesses and corporations. with the threat of climate change looming, this very real danger became a major news story, and american forests launched global releaf2. the campaign recognized the urgent need for millions more trees to offset the warming of the planet, with a goal of planting 100 million trees by 2020. that goal will be helped by two large donations received in 2007. american forests received $2.8 million to plant trees in wildfire-stricken california as part of a $10 million settlement between the state of california and conocophillips. the settlement was designed to offset emissions caused by an expansion of a conocophillips refinery. the result will be 2.8 million more trees—and millions of tons of co2 sequestered—in california. american forests immediately set up an advisory committee of experts under its california releaf project to evaluate potential planting sites. and american forests was a runner-up in american express’s members project, a contest in which card members proposed hundreds of projects, then voted them down to five finalists. the winning project received $2 mil- lion; the four runners-up— including plant a million trees: global reforestation, which american forests would implement—each received $100,000. american forests will use that money to plant more trees in global releaf forest projects. it was a year in which the music industry became even more involved in the effort to plant trees to restore damaged ecosystems and begin to offset the catastrophic effects of global warming, our partnership with grammy award-winning rock band linkin park and its nonprofit music for relief yielded a tree planted for each ticket sold for its 2007 summer concert tour. the band’s official fan club, underground, joined with music for relief to plant 100,000 trees in global releaf forests. fans had voted on the cause they thought would make the most difference to the environment and chose tree planting with american forests. with the support of the home depot foundation, shering-plough, and sallie mae, our katrina releaf fund sponsored the planting of thousands of trees to restore areas damaged in that devastating storm. trees have been planted in jefferson parish and hundreds of new oaks now grace new orleans’s city park. in addition, through the support of viewers of oprah winfrey‘s television show and oprah’s angel network, we are planting four energy-conserving trees around each habitat for humanity house in new communities in texas, mississippi, alabama, and louisiana. these new neighborhoods also will be planted with street and playground trees. our 9/11 projects have established living tributes to those who lost their lives in that tragedy. with the support of hsh albert ii, sovereign prince of monaco’s living memorial tree foundation, we planted 3,000 trees in new york city, one for each person who died. we also funded the planting of trees at the soon-to-be-dedicated pentagon memorial in virginia together with the u.s. forest service and american forests’ members. and american forests planted liberty trees—trees grown from the seeds of the last of the revolutionary war liberty trees—in ceremonies in georgia, when the last liberty tree, in maryland, had to be taken down, seeds were collected and enough offspring germinated to give each of the 13 original colonies and the district of columbia its own replacement liberty tree. in florida, american forests’ historic tree nursery offered saplings grown from seeds of the oklahoma city survivor tree, an american elm that survived the 1995 bombing of the alfred p. murrah federal building, one of the worst acts of terrorism on american soil. the trees have proven to be very popular; the survivor tree stands as a symbol of strength in the heart of downtown oklahoma city.