 two major projects, one in georgia and the other in northern new england, continued in 2011 to demonstrate that there is a strong potential market for the “ecosystem services” provided to the public by sustainably managed private forests. ecosystem services can be described as “nature’s benefits”—clean air, clean water, wildlife habitat, and places for recreation, for example--that come from a healthy forest ecosystem and that contribute to the public good. near fort benning, georgia, aff worked with the longleaf alliance, the world resources institute, advanced conservation solutions, the nature conservancy, the u.s. fish and wildlife service, the u.s. department of defense, and other partners to design an innovative habitat conservation trading program to help protect the gopher tortoise. the species is threatened in some parts of its range, and depends on active and continuous forest management for its survival. the project is funded by a conservation innovation grant from the u.s. department of agriculture’s natural resources conservation service. when fully implemented, the proposed habitat credit trading program will enable private forestland owners to sell credits generated by their good management of gopher tortoise habitat to organizations that need to mitigate the impacts of their work, such as road construction, on gopher tortoise habitat nearby. the natural resources conservation service also funded a project in new england designed to highlight the importance of privately owned forests in protecting two watersheds: the upper connecticut river watershed along the vermont-new hampshire border, and the crooked river watershed serving portland, maine. the goal is to pay landowners who manage their forests sustainably for the important role they play in protecting water quality. it’s a win-win solution. when the project is fully implemented, family forest owners will be able to maintain their forestland, and have additional income to help defer costs to keep their forestland. communities downstream will benefit from water that is cleaner and costs less to treat than through an expensive water treatment facility. in june of 2011, aff and the world resources institute co-sponsored the fourth annual national ecosystem markets conference, ecosystem markets: making them work in madison, wisconsin. the conference brought together a diverse group of stakeholders to explore how markets can be used to protect and restore ecosystems, and also provide economic benefits to family forest owners. experts, innovators, and hands-on users of these evolving market models gathered to learn about recent progress, how these markets will affect family forests and other property owners, and how state and regional efforts can merge into a common model.