 1990 was a unique, challenging year for the american forestry association. the ambitious goals the association had established in the two previous years were not only met but dramatically exceeded. afa's voice was heard on a wide range of topics and in a variety of settings. from limon, colorado, tp mettmann, germany, from the president of the united states to a hungarian environmentalist, afa was able to realize its goal: to bring people and trees together to the benefit of both, and for the lasting improvement of the world’s environment. and yet, in the face of those successes, we realize that some of the most daunting conservation problems of the century still face us. our successes so far build only a framework on which to continue working toward a more rational, comprehensive conservation policy that is applicable to people everywhere. to make that policy work means educating people about the role trees play in their lives. myriad conservation groups have sprung up in recent years, often competing with each other to be recognized as the expert at telling us how io be environmentally conscious. everything ranging from modest suggestions to sermon-like diatribes against the eco-sins of modem man have bombarded people until the result is a confusing din and, too often, an overwhelmed and disinterested public. it is through this cacophony that the mainstream conservation message must be heard if afa is to succeed in reaching people. throughout its history, afa has served as facilitator for rational discussion and compromise. at no lime has that been more important than the past year. ara was challenged to demonstrate its ability to bring widely divergent groups together to act in a spirit of cooperation to achieve a common goal. by doing this, afa often transcended the role of facilitator and became a hub, around which revolved citizen groups, businesses, and government acting in concert. the results? these are just a few: afa information and education materials reached twice the number of people as in 1989. as a result, afa’s membership-- regular and associate, grew two over 112,000 --up 28 percent in one year's time! the number of grassroots projects exploded as people, working through citizen groups, local businesses and government, took matters literally into their own hands. with the help of ara’s global releaf fund, nearly 100 tree planting and care projects in communities across the country were directly assisted. for the first time in 116 years, afa successfully launched a program that raises money from private sources to help support the reforestation and restoration of degraded ecosystems on public lands. with the strong support of state and federal land management agencies, and the financial support of individuals and businesses, the global releaf heritage forest program got off to a strong start with the restoration of almost 150 acres of key forest sites. afa’s mission was given a major boost as president george bush announced his america the beautiful campaign. his pledge, to encourage americans to plant an additional billion trees per year for the next decade, brings programs like global releaf, along with all the other national, regional, and local tree planting programs, together in a major national initiative. ◆ corporate support for environmental programs skyrocketed as more and more businesses sought to show concern for their communities and their world. in 1989, corporations donated $360,000 to afa’s programs and projects. in 1990 that figure rose to $1.5 million. afa and global releaf went internationai with canada releaf off to a fast start under the able guidance of friends of the earth, initial efforts started in costa rica and england, and (would this have been thinkable five years ago?) an energetic and able program beginning in hungary. afa met challenges on the legislative front with unparalleled success, pushing through ground-breaking measures on a wide variety of topics for the first time in history, the 1990 fam bill contained a full title on forestry, with several ground-breaking new initiatives. with the president's sponsorship, legislative action to to improve federal programs and provide adequate budgets was much easier—and the results in the final session of the 100th congress, which included in a near doubling in the programs that assist nonindustrial private forest landowners and an increasingly well-balanced national forest program, looked like an afa wish list! as the battle over protecting the old growth forests of the pacific northwest reached a fever pitch, afa stood strong for a new approach based on science and professional management for shared and multiple purposes. new research efforts were funded and coordinated through a new partnership involving afa the environmental protection agency, the forest service, state foresters, and a host of experts from universities and the forest products industry. several dozen new studies are demonstrating the value of forests in stabilizing environmental and climate conditions, pointing the way to new management considerations and helping forest managers understand the risks and options they must consider in the event that climate change occurs as many currently predict. from the halls of congress to the forests of northern michigan, from the devastation wrought by hurricane hugo in south carolina to the streets of seattle, afa members played out the organization's theme to an appreciative audience. we must have more and better trees and forests, and that means people must learn about their relationship to the trees that surround them every day, and take positive action to improve those trees and forests. and, far from just talking our message, we fulfilled it: groups that only a year ago did not know of one another are now working together under the global releaf banner, local governments, facing incredible budget crunches have nonetheless taken important steps toward softening the hard life of a city tree, corporations never before involved in environmental improvement have begun to iook beyond the bottom line, and a group of youngsters in washington, dc now know the correct way to plant and care for a tree. as a member of afa, you can point with pride to these and other accomplishments they are a result of your support and efforts. as a citizen who cares about trees and forests, you know that the work is far from complete. however, afa has a solid start and, with a strong board of directors and your continued support, we can build upon the successes of the past year while looking toward the windows of opportunity that open daily. please join us as we look back on the year past and eagerly face the upcoming challenges.