 once the community is organized, you should take action. working together with others enhances the message and expands the benefits. toward that end, the policy center held its annual week in washington, teaching representatives of rural nonprofits how best to interact with their congressional representatives and helping them meet with these officials to discuss local issues with national ramifications. policy papers and copies of american forests' congressional testimony were available for free from american forests’ website. also available: copies of ueas conducted in 2006 and in previous years. citygreen, american forests’ popular software program, allows users to map and measure the financial cost when trees are lost and the increased savings when trees are added. american forests worked with school systems and teachers in nine schools in washington, dc, thanks to the casey trees foundation; and with schools in charlotte, north carolina, thanks to the dale earnhart foundation. a canadian version of citygreen is currently in the works. american forests continued its tree-planting efforts by awarding 21 global releaf grants to plant a million trees in 14 states and four countries every dollar donated to the program plants a tree. among the many diverse projects were ones to restore a popular hiking, cross-country skiing, and hunting area in wisconsin; plant trees for bald eagle habitat after a colorado wildfire; protect stream health for endangered salmon in oregon; green urban communities along an illinois expressway; and reforest monarch butterfly habitat in mexico. helping those recovering from the effects of hurricane katrina continued to be a focus of activities in several areas of american forests. donations from talk-show host oprah winfrey’s angel network allowed american forests to plant trees around homes built for families displaced by the august 2005 storm. interest in american forests and its work to help lessen the effects of climate change through tree planting got a boost from mentions on three episodes of winfrey’s popular daytime show. the planting with oprah was one of several efforts by american forests to help those in coastal areas hard-hit by katrina. with help from the home depot foundation, american forests’ katrina releaf fund awarded four grants to help restore tree cover and a sense of community: new orleans city park will use its grant money to replace some of the 1,000 trees lost across its 1,300 acres; friends of jefferson the beautiful will plant 1,250 trees throughout the parish; shreveport green will grow 3,000 trees for its southern planting partners, and parkway partners will replace trees in public spaces. the year was a busy one in the life of big trees, with the release of the 2006-2007 national register of big trees, a list of the largest known of 826 species of trees in the u.s. this much-anticipated “contest,” sponsored by the davey tree expert company, crowned 119 new champions, while 130 old champs lost their crowns, some to injury or death, others to a bigger challenger. friendly state rivalries (and some not-so-friendly) were renewed as titles for state trees changed hands and old favorites dropped off the list in favor of brash upstarts. a grant from the national urban and community forestry advisory council allowed measurement and nomination standards to be updated and the urban ecosystem value of champions to be posted online.