 when i think about the highlights of 2011, i recall a room packed with hundreds of partners of the american forest foundation (aff)—from the administration, congress, the forest and wood products sector, along with tree farmers, educators, conservationists, children, parents, and colleagues in the forestry community. we were all gathered to celebrate the international year of forests, and aff, along with the national association of state foresters and the u.s. forest service, had brought our community together to emphasize the importance of private working forests in america. we were surrounded by 51 “forest boxes”—one from every state and the district of columbia—created by project learning tree classrooms. each box depicted the special characteristics of a state’s forests. the boxes were full of poetry, paintings, photos, forest products, and souvenirs. they told the story of the significance of america’s forests, as seen through the eyes of the next generation. this gathering epitomized what the american forest foundation is all about. our purpose is to ensure that the special places cared for by family forest owners are recognized as essential to america’s well-being and economic prosperity. aff works on-the-ground with families, teachers, and elected officials to promote stewardship and protect our nation’s forest heritage. a commitment to the next generation unites our nationwide network of forest owners and teachers working to keep our forests healthy and our children well-prepared for the future they will inherit. aff works nationwide and in partnership with local, state, and national groups to provide hands-on support for america’s 10 million family forest owners, giving them the tools they need to manage healthy and sustainable woodlands. clean air, clean water, habitat for wildlife, wood for sustainable building, good-paying rural jobs, and nature for hiking, hunting, and fishing—all come from family forests. and aff’s sustainable woodland system, the american tree farm system, helps 89,000 family forest owners meet stringent third-party standards for managing nearly 26 million acres of forestland. to grow the next generation of leaders— those who will inherit america’s natural legacy— aff also works with tens of thousands of teachers each year. through our education program, project learning tree, we provide a peer-reviewed, award- winning environmental education curriculum. in an era where more and more children are disconnected from nature, over 500,000 teachers nationwide have been trained in this curriculum, opening a door to america’s outdoor heritage for more than 75 million students. as you’ll see when reading through the highlights of 2011 in the following pages, our purpose is interlocked with people and places: the people in our networks who are committed to ensuring america’s forest legacy continues, and the places across the nation they steward. the people span a wide range of backgrounds—from tree farmers who are sustainably managing working forests, to partners who are helping us reach more woodland owners to improve stewardship on more acres, and to educators, who use forests as a window on the world to help the young appreciate the importance of our woodland resources. and they are all united in a shared purpose: to protect the places that represent america’s forest legacy. to all of these people—and to the donors who gave generously to aff in 2011—we thank you for your support, and we look forward to working with you in the coming years.