 this report offers a review of the accomplishments of the collaborative forest landscape restoration (cflr) program, which was created in 2009 to promote job stability, reliable wood supply, forest health, and reduced emergency wildfire costs and risks. the program is rooted in the belief that america’s forests are fundamental to our nation’s prosperity. covering one-third of the united states, forests store and filter half the country’s water supply; provide jobs to more than a million wood products workers; absorb 20% of u.s. carbon emissions; generate more than $13 billion of recreation and other economic activity on forest service lands alone; and provide habitat for thousands of wildlife and plant species across the country. this year we found these benefits to both life and livelihood challenged by a host of problems familiar and new. the trend of the new millennium continued with record wildfires scorching 9 million acres. the u.s. forest service and department of the interior ran out of money to fight emergency wildfires. thirty new counties discovered the destructive invasive emerald ash borer in their jurisdictions. and climate change further enflamed the behavior of both insects and fires. but three years after its creation through bipartisan legislation, cflr is helping address these challenges by fostering collaborative restoration on 23 forest landscapes across the u.s. this pilot program was established “...to encourage the collaborative, science-based ecosystem restoration of priority forest landscapes” (public law 111-11). cflr projects are on track to meet their ten-year goals. ten of the original cflr landscape sites have received three years of funding—enough time to generate measurable returns on investment. ten new sites funded through cflr and three additional funded as high priority restoration projects (hprp) were selected in february 2012 by the u.s. department of agriculture, and have one year of measurable outputs to share. to date these 23 projects have cumulatively: created and maintained an estimated 3,375 part and full-time jobs during 2011 and 4,574 part and full-time jobs during fy 2012, sold 94.1 million cubic feet of timber and produced 1,158,000 green tons of biomass, provided an additional $45.4 mil- lion of partner and forest service investment to leverage federal cflr and matching dollars, generated nearly $320 million of labor income, removed fuel for destructive mega-fires on 383,000 acres near communities, reduced mega-fire on an additional 229,000 acres, improved 537,000 acres of wildlife habitat, restored 394 miles of fish habitat, enhanced clean water supplies by remediating or decommissioning 6,000 miles of eroding roads. at the beginning of the 20th century our nation installed the weeks act, a visionary law that provided a roadmap to conserve the nation’s forest and water resources. in our own millennium we look to build off that bold leadership by restoring forests, and the communities that depend on them, through the collaborative approach of cflr. the following pages provide accountability for these efforts, and a measure of value for generations of americans into the next century.