 global releaf helps people improve the environment by planting trees. global releaf cost-share grants to local partners support environmentally significant community-based projects that plant native trees to restore damaged forest ecosystems on public lands. we planted 2.6 million trees in 1999 putting us halfway to our goal of 20 million trees for the new millennium. the global releaf fund also awarded $140,000 in grants for urban and international tree planting projects including 23800 trees in 21 urban projects with eddie bauer ikea in balance bar in san francisco new york vancouver atlanta chicago baltimore and seattle. with briggs & stratton kellogg's larson-juhl and exxonmobil 198000 trees were planted in mexico cambodia ukraine and gambia including 100,000 trees planted for tiger habitat in russia with exxonmobil. tree plantings held in conjunction with specialty retailer eddie bauer and community residents honored the 100th anniversary of the store founder’s birth. additional support of $50,000 from american express helped fund these projects. new global releaf forest supporters included is zurich kemper life bellsouth wells fargo balance bar keystone energy earthbound farm sci kia shaklee corporation and fleet bank new foundation support came from the spring creek jackson mcintosh and cafritz foundations. communications efforts focused on the total renovation of our world wide web site in partnership with sponsor garden.com our new ecommerce security site keeps us on the cutting edge of this technology our quarterly magazine debuted a new look that is more reader-friendly with full color throughout our public service advertisements continue to appear in national magazines. our famous and historic trees program conducted a national johnny appleseed tour in the spring bringing heightened recognition of the program in the media and prompting best-ever sales. agriculture secretary down glickman announced the usda would donate a gift of 100 famous and historic trees to every state and territory.