 2010 was a busy year for our policy team, as it worked with our partners and coalitions to support rural, urban and community forestry issues. american forests engaged in a number of national coalitions in 2010, including the forests climate working group and the forests in the farm bill coalition. we also helped establish a new coalition focused on advancing the collaborative forest landscape restoration program (cflrp). through these efforts, american forests has provided leadership in building support for innovative programs, such as cflrp, that encourage collaborative efforts toward forest and watershed restoration on a landscape scale. we advocated for urban forests and green infrastructure issues through participation in the sustainable urban forests coalition and supported their d.c. advocacy days. in addition, we helped develop positions supporting strong funding for the forest service’s urban and community forestry program, as well as several new pieces of legislation, including energy conservation through trees, clean water and urban parks. in the spring, american forests partnered with the rural voices for conservation coalition and the national rural assembly during “western week in washington.” with our combined outreach efforts, we coordinated meetings with policymakers and sponsored a reception for congressional members and staff, administration officials and representatives from national ngos. the reception attracted more than 100 people, including robert bonnie, science advisor to usda secretary tom vilsack, and congressman jeff merkley from oregon. later in the year, american forests and the communities committee planned and convened the 2nd annual policy meeting of dozens of members of eastern community-based forestry policy partners in washington, d.c. during the meeting, the group adopted the name “coalition for eastern forests and communities” to enhance its identity for doing policy work together. the participants developed the beginnings of a policy platform for responding to and advocating for components of the 2012 farm bill.