 a new careers brochure so you want to be in forestry done in cooperation with the society of american foresters is in the final editing stage. a new brochure entitled forests and 4th street in america being prepared with support of the forest service and american forest council is in reviewing and editing stage.we created a 1988 big trees calendar to promote the big trees program and serve as the basis for a successful fundraising campaign among both nonmembers and members. 20 us cities were studied to determine the condition of their urban forest. the survey the state of our city's was compiled and printed in american forests. the article created considerable interest in the condition of urban trees and 5,000 reprints were sold. the series continued with two articles about improving the health of the urban forest. we created a famous and historic trees program solved some difficult technical problems involved in collecting storing and germinating viable seed from old trees sold tree grove seedling packets to 80 cities and created a great deal of attention to trees and tree plantings as part of the celebration of the bicentennial of the united states constitution. we worked with the bicentennial commission of the plant a living legacy program during the celebration were named the vendor for selling plaques to living legacy participants and arranged for local production of the plaques. we created the concepts for four afa conservation posters obtained a sponsor for the artwork and coordinated the production of the poster series. the national register of big trees had more than 60 new national champions crowned for the hundreds of nominations received during 1987. the touch america project was included in national wildlife week materials that focus on forest for 1988 and served as a youth component of the take pride in america effort and keep america beautiful public lands day. tap continues to attract nearly 8,000 teenagers each year who accomplish more than 1 million dollars worth of conservation work on public lands.