 2010 was a big year for two of our marquee programs: the national register of big trees and global releaf. our 2010 register crowned 733 big tree champions and co-champions, representing 637 species. florida regained its title for most big trees in a state, taking back the top spot from arizona, and delaware made its way back onto the list this year with a champion virginia pine. hawaii, north dakota, oklahoma, rhode island and wyoming are still looking for champions. in 2010, the davey tree expert company, the premiere sponsor of the national register of big trees, helped support american forests’ efforts to make the national register available solely online for the first time. a historic, favorite tree, the seven sisters oak in louisiana, regained its champion title in 2010, but the biggest big tree in the country remains general sherman, a giant sequoia in california and a champ since 1940. general sherman is a whopping 274.9 feet tall and its trunk weighs nearly 1,400 tons, roughly equivalent to 15 adult blue whales. global releaf sponsored 45 projects (33 domestic and 12 international) in 2010, planting more than five million trees. our work included reforesting areas destroyed by fire such as in custer national forest in montana; wetland rehabilitation in places like cypress creek national wildlife refuge in illinois; wildlife habitat restoration in states such as michigan for kirtland’s warbler and in texas for migratory birds, butterflies, ocelot and jaguarondi; and international programs to aid communities in various countries, including cameroon, china, mexico and peru. many long-running global releaf projects continued in 2010. for 14 years, we’ve been supporting efforts in texas’ lower rio grande valley to help protect and restore this region’s habitat, which is one of the most biologically diverse areas in all of north america. in california, we remain committed to helping the communities in san bernardino mountains reforest after devastating wildfires in 2003 and 2007. internationally, we completed a three-year project to restore important mangrove ecosystems in five different provinces of china, and for the fifth year, we worked with our partners to reforest two parts of michoacán, mexico, a monarch butterfly biosphere reserve and highland lakes. we supported a number of new projects in 2010. to improve watershed quality in new mexico, a reforestation project along the santa fe river, bluewater creek, la jencia creek and rio puerco was undertaken. beyond reforestation, this project worked to remove non-native species and to stabilize the river banks. our project in peru helped reverse the ongoing battle against desertification in ica, a city in peru’s southern coastal belt. this area is experiencing high rates of desertification due to soil erosion from trees being cut down for charcoal production. in 2010, many of our global releaf programs also worked to educate local communities about the benefits of forests to their communities and livelihoods through pamphlets, handouts, events and other activities.