 as we have done for the last 15 years, american forests focused on helping communities restore their forests through our global releaf campaign, which planted a total of 544,000 trees. many of those trees were planted in wildfire restoration projects. in august, hurricane katrina forever changed the face of the gulf coast; within days american forests responded to numerous requests from the area by announcing plans to raise money to replant trees lost in the storm. katrina releaf was launched with assistance from the u.s. forest service and state forestry agencies in louisiana, mississippi, and alabama. donations from members, coleman natural foods, and, most importantly, the home depot foundation will be leveraged by government grants to local communities in the katrina-affected areas. the home depot foundation has also pledged its help to save thousands of mature live oaks on the mississippi gulf coast by funding the placement of soil and mulch around these tree's roots. our work with gulf coast communities was just a small part of american forests’ global releaf efforts in 2005. working with project partners across the u.s. to restore endangered ecosystems, wildlife habitat, and forestland burned by wildfire , american forests planted more than a half-million trees. in alabama, 83,000 longleaf pine were planted to restore endangered red cockaded woodpecker habitat. in california, 35,000 redwood, pine, and fir were the first stage in replanting efforts at the forestlawn boy scout reservation after wildfire struck in 2003. plantings in illinois will ease workers' commutes and increase tree cover along chicago's expressways. the nez perce tribe of idaho planted 137,000 trees along the clearwater river to restore wildlife habitat and protect a precious drinking water source. a diverse array of wildlife also benefited from these tree plantings: from the endangered bog copper butterfly in maryland to mule deer, elk, and lynx in montana. we also began update work on our perennially popular national register of big trees program. nominations were received and sent out to state coordinators to verify in preparation for publication of the biennial national register of big trees in 2006. many new tree - planting sponsors signed on in 2005, among them coleman natural foods, paul mitchell, alcoa foundation, and honey mae mortgage corp. many previous sponsors renewed and grew their support , including ikea, crystal geyser, and the home depot foundation. american forests planted a moon sycamore—a direct descendant of a tree grown from seeds that went to the moon on apollo xiv—at arlington cemetery outside washington in memory of the astronaut who carried the seeds into space, stuart roosa. we benefited from fundraising events in new york city and on the queen mary 2, which brought in many new major donors. and we published four issues of our award - winning magazine, american forests, and distributed our monthly email newsletter, forest bytes. press releases and public service ads garnered media and public attention and, with u.s. forest service support, we produced the 10-part series, tales from urban forests, on national public radio. american forests w a s honored for 100 years of partnership with the u.s. forest service by receiving the agency’s centennial legacy award . we welcome the help of people everywhere in our efforts to improve our local and global environment by protecting and planting trees to maximize their air- and water-quality benefits, creating better public policy for trees and forests, and planting trees to restore damaged forest ecosystems. join us! help american forests grow a healthier world with trees .