 over forty percent of colorado’s 555,300 acre uncompahgre plateau is located in the “wildland urban interface” and fuels reduction is a community safety priority. at the same time restoration treatments will improve wildlife habitat and conditions for native colorado cutthroat trout and provide crucial employment opportunities for the last remaining large sawmills in colorado. born and raised in colorado, 16 year-old sarah stalcup has been enjoying the outdoors with her family ever since she was a little girl. she loves practically everything about being outside: camping, climbing, fishing, mountain biking, and the list goes on. according to sarah, “almost everyone i know goes camping a couple times a year to be outside and enjoy all that we have here in colorado.” the uncompahgre plateau collaborative forest landscape restoration project is funding treatments to bring the forest back to its healthy condition, improve wildlife habitat, and reduce the risk of catastrophic wildfires. sarah gets to study the project’s effects. sarah previously had an apprenticeship with the u.s. forest service before entering the 10th grade at delta high school, and funding from the uncompahgre plateau cflr allowed her to continue data collection in grand mesa, uncompahgre, and gunnison national forests. “through the program, i’ve had the opportunity to work with resource professionals in forestry, wildlife and fisheries biology, archaeology, engineering and land surveying,” sarah says. sarah also conducted a monitoring project that she presented to the multi-party monitoring group for the uncompahgre plateau cflr, and took to the state science fair competition in 2011. with help from forest service personnel, sarah’s research will provide a second year’s worth of data that will not only strengthen her science fair project for the coming year, but also help the forest service monitor long-term trends of stream health on the affected allotment. sarah was thrilled to get the apprenticeship the first year it was offered and even more so to get it again this year. “the experience has motivated me to pursue a career in the sciences, specifically biology and the best thing about my apprenticeship has been being able to work outdoors while learning at the same time. i’m really glad that i’ve been able to have this great learning experience at such a young age,” she explains. looking forward, sarah says, “i hope forest conditions keep improving here in colorado. i appreciate the work being done to get our forests back to where they are supposed to be, while still allowing access for people to experience and enjoy them at the same time.”