 in 2010, american forests passed many milestones — our 135th anniversary, the 115th year of american forests magazine, the 70th birthday of the national register of big trees and global releaf’s 20th planting year — but as we celebrated our past successes, we also moved confidently toward a new future for the new decade. one of the biggest global environmental stories in 2010 was climate change. the united nations hosted a climate change conference in copenhagen in fall 2009 and the national academy of sciences released three reports in may 2010 confirming climate change as a scientific fact, despite skepticism in some circles. american forests has taken a leading role in advocating for and communicating the key role trees and forests can play in counteracting the effects of climate change. through a grant from the u.s. forest service, we issued a special report on the perils facing whitebark pine in spring 2010. this keystone species in america’s mountain west is being decimated by the disease, blister rust, and the infestation of mountain pine beetles, which is being exacerbated by climate change, among other things. american forests has supported the protection and restoration of this species for more than a decade. several 2010 global releaf projects focus on whitebark pine planting efforts, and we, along with a number of other groups, advocated in 2010 for the placement of whitebark pine on the federal endangered species list. american forests’ longtime executive director, deborah gangloff, departed in early 2010, and our vice president of policy, gerry gray, stepped in as acting executive director while a search commenced for our next leader. in december 2010, american forests officially welcomed its new ceo, scott steen, who brings a wealth of nonprofit leadership and management experience to our organization. during this same time, american forests’ board of directors underwent a series of transitions with lynda webster succeeding caroline gabel as board chair and the introduction of seven new board members. one thing that remained consistent, though, was our commitment to protecting and restoring america’s trees and forests.