 we created three board task forces to focus attention on our three priority areas in 1987 and each had an active productive year. the forest house task force organized an expert advisory panel which helped develop and afa white paper on the forest effects of air pollution. we continue to host and support the national council on private forest 12 organizations that work to coordinate their programs and services to nonindustrial private forest land owners. we carried out a study of the trail riders program decided to recreate it in 1988 with a new focus on helping to further afa’s mission hired a new director and have arranged for a broadened array of trips in 1988. american forest featured its first year of beefed-up bimonthly issues featuring 16 additional pages printed on special putty stock. that format allowed us to spotlight such topics as pot growing and tree spiking on the national forest the upturn in the timber industry in the pacific northwest and the turmoil over management of our largest national forest the tongass. afa provided neutral ground for some polarized groups to have input to the forest planning process by sponsoring seminars during which a national forest land management planning team could interface with interested persons in washington dc. the olympic and siskiyou national forest participated in 1987 the mount baker-snoqualmie and the tongass national forest are scheduled for early 1988. we continue to host and chair the national urban forest council which held 10 readings at afa house as well as two special sessions in connection with other national meetings and two issue-oriented meetings. afa regional meetings were held in conjunction with the following events society of american foresters national convention in minneapolis mn massachusetts forestry association in petersham massachusetts western forestry and conservation association conference in portland oregon midwest greenways workshop in indianapolis indiana. we worked with the forest service outside advisers and to commercial public relations firms to do market research concept development program creation and create the initial products for a new national information campaign about the national forest system entitled forest for us. the national urban forest council sponsored the urban tree information network to help communities find answers information was supplied to congress about the condition of urban forests and their need for assistance and council meetings were held in washington as well as minnesota and colorado. for 17 days in june 25 afa’ers were treated to some spectacular scenery good food and entertained by hospitable folks in norway sweden and finland. the tour was a blend of scandinavian culture and natural resources in those countries. afa responded to more than 100 inquiries of technical nature. answers often involve use of the mcardle memorial library and information center or calling a suitable expert for the information. request ranged from resources to seedlings to land management issues to kiln drying effects on powder-post beetle larva.