 global releaf hit the ground running in 1990. the program, begun in 1988 in response to growing concerns about the greenhouse effect and climate change expanded into one of the most widely recognized conservation campaigns in the united states. an overwhelming number of citizens, corporations, and governments responded to the giobal releaf challenge lo "plant a tree, cool the giobe." although the program became a beacon for wide-ranging action, its founding premise remained constant. everyone can help improve the environment no action is too small. in an effort to consolidate the many groups working under the giobal releaf umbrella, the giobal releaf coalition was formed in late 1990. this provided groups with a support network of similar organizations, and ensured that groups were not competing for resources, but helping one another in their pursuits. in order to help citizen’s groups realize their goals, and provide a way for people and companies to provide assistance in a coordinated way, the giobal releaf fund was established. this source of financial aid was available to a wide variety of groups as matching funds to buy trees and materials, or to help support the essential activities of implementing a successful project. in its first year, 1989, the global releaf fund helped 12 groups complete tree plantings in their communities. in1990, nearly 100 projects benefitted from $635,000 in support. corporations also flocked to the giobal releaf cause, with many finding it an excellent way to give important, tangible benefits back to the community in which they live and do business. but some of the corporate projects were done just because the help was so badly needed. for example, in limon, coiorado, mr. coffee--a maker of paper coffee fillers financed tree plantings to replace the total devastation of the town's trees by a june tornado. in denver, houston, and new orleans, over 1,600 texaco employees turned out as volunteer tree planters to supplement local organizations, and planted large street trees that had been purchased and donated by the company. in school rooms across america, teachers used educational posters distributed by mcdonald’s restaurants, and in nine cities, children could go to their local mcdonald’s to pick up a seedling for their own planting. teachers by the thousands used a global releaf curriculum guide to help students understand climate change, and how trees and forests can be part of the solution. afa-s famous and historic tree program was expanded into a major national effort through a partnership with classic trees, inc., a commercial nursery in jacksonville, florida. under the energetic leadership of classic trees, a national seed-gathering campaign involved hundreds of groups and thousands of people, all dedicated to gathering seed or cuttings from the nation's famous and historic trees. all were carefully shipped to participating commercial nurseries, where they are being grown into high-quality seedlings for community plantings. local tree-planting groups can sell these famous and historic trees as a fund raiser, getting both a source of tree seedlings and operating capital in the process. planted at schools and parks, along with certificates of authenticity, historical background write ups, and suggested teaching materials, these tree groves wi11 become a place where children for decades will be able lo learn u.s. history, and the role of trees in the environment, at the same time. 1990 was also the year that the global releaf campaign reached across the ocean and captured the imagination of our european friends. in mettmann, germany, karl peter hasenkamp decided to find a way to offset the carbon dioxide he and his family produced through their fuel usage. the answer: plant trees in america (the cost in germany is prohibitively high) through global releaf. his donation, along with many from the u.s., helped established the first global releaf heritage forest planting in michigan. hen hasenkamp is now establishing a nonprofit group to broaden the program in germany. england and hungary are also entering into the releaf in addition to international involvement, global releaf also saw the birth of several offspring programs, aimed at getting an even wider variety of people involved in the effort. energy releaf is a program that encourages utility companies to plant and care for trees as one way to compensate for their carbon dioxide output, as well as educate their consumers in the use of trees as an energy conservation measure. farm releaf-- a program designed and publicized by successful farming magazine encourages farm families to share innovative ideas about creative uses of trees in converting marginal crop or pasture lands, improving the environment, and producing new crops to help stabilize fam income. and global releaf for new communities is a vehicle for responsible developers and suburban planners to demonstrate that new communities can be built without doing irrevocable harm to the land, and to reward and publicize those developers willing to build environmentally sensitive communities. throughout 1990, global releaf took its message to an ever expanding audience of people looking to have a positive impact on the world in which they live. this is made possible by the strong and continuing support of the nations and media magazines and newspapers such as time ladies home journal national geographic esquire newsweek and usa today that provided millions of dollars worth of free advertising space radio and television stations that publicize local tree planting projects and our special cable television partner discovery channel who developed and are airing a growing list of global releaf ads promotions and educational videos. our message was also carried on consumer products as companies like a aveda quintessence and ralston purina found space on their advertising and packaging to promote global releaf and found money for the sake of their products and services to support tree planting projects as well as educational outreach.