 in terms of afa impact on national policy making 1990 was one of the most attractive and exciting years in the history of the association. federal programs that cooperate with and support improved forestry on both state and private lands were dressed in the 1990 farm bill. several exciting new campaigns were initiated including the forest legacy program the stewardship incentive program and the forest stewardship program. the forest legacy program will allow usda to assist state and local and protection efforts through a conservation easement program. this allows the protection of critical forest areas from incompatible development while leaving the land and private ownership and getting the owners compensation for the restrictions that have been placed on the land and its use. the forest stewardship program along with the associated stewardship incentives provide state forestry agencies with new tools to research nonindustrial private forest owners. a broad range of technical assistance focusing on managing forest for the entire range of environmental and economic benefits not just timber production will give owners access to new information a new stewardship options. the stewardship incentives provides cost-sharing to give them the support needed to invest in additional forest quality. the results of this major new effort will be seen and dramatically improved for us on the millions of ownerships that make up the bulk of america's future forest base. one of the many challenges that paste af a in the political arena over the last year involves the emotionally-charged debate surrounding tropical forest. to address that challenge a s a apply for and received a grant from the us agency for international development to conduct research on sustainable development in tropical forest regions and begin an educational campaign aimed at informing american adults and youngsters about the importance of the forests that are far from our shores. our goal is to help people understand what countries like the us can do to help people around the world use their forests wisely and well. in addition to all this afaa also enter the controversial debate on old growth forests. as the two sides of the debate continue to become more and more polarized and compromise seems to slip farther from reach afa brought its expertise and reputation for moderation into the discussion. with a variety of bills being introduced in congress afa helps develop support for the ideals that the association was founded upon a multiple use management approach based on the best science available and sensitive to the continued productivity of the ecosystem as a whole. resolution of the old-growth issue seems far in front of us yet, but we are convinced that the ultimate answer will require the kind of sound, rational thinking that is always hard to achieve once an issue becomes as emotional and heated as this one has become.