 conservation victories are always shared successes. scientists provide the knowledge that underpins environmental action. not-for-profit advocacy organizations educate the public about the issues. lawmakers enact legislation to protect wildlife and the natural world. but none of it would be possible without the passionate activism of the grassroots, the ordinary people who do extraordinary things on behalf of wildlife and natural places. whether it’s cleaning beaches fouled by a disastrous oil spill or demanding that their legislators protect pristine places in the far north that are crucial to birds, it is the passion of these people that drives the forces of hope. together, audubon’s unparalleled network of activists channel that energy and produce real conservation success. restoring the gulf for two years audubon staff in washington, d.c., and the mississippi flyway, as well as volunteers across america, helped shape and push for the restore act. we saw victory this past july, when president obama signed the bill into law, establishing one of the most significant pieces of conservation legislation passed in decades. restore could direct as much as $20 billion in bp’s fines from the 2010 deepwater horizon oil spill to restoring gulf coast habitat. the success of passing restore was built on the shoulders of many heroes, including audubon’s allies in congress, our partner environmental organizations, and the walton family foundation. and audubon activists have been working on the ground, coming to the defense of the gulf’s birds and beaches in many ways. • during the spill’s first days, audubon was the go-to group in the gulf; more than 35,000 audubon activists came forward to volunteer for rescue and recovery efforts. • following the spill, about 200 audubon chapters educat- ed members about the crisis, inspiring them to take action. • audubon activists delivered more than 115,000 emails and phones calls to legislators in congress. in the months leading up to restore’s passage, audubon kept the pressure on. we launched the missis- sippi flyway action network (mfan), which unites online and offline communities and encourages a flyways- minded approach to conservation. the initiative trained volunteer leaders who met with legislators in washington; wrote op-eds and letters to editors; worked with chapters in the 14 mississippi flyway states to involve their members; sent letters and made phone calls to state lawmakers and congressional delegations; and more. restore is a victory shared by many. but none were more heroic, or more passionate, than our grassroots activists. without them, this simply would not have happened. safeguarding the arctic audubon has been working in the national petroleum reserve-alaska (reserve), the largest public land unit in the country, for more than two decades. this roughly 23-million-acre landscape is one of the most important breeding grounds for more than five million birds from across all four north american flyways, including the spectacled eider, yellow-billed loon, and pacific brant. in august secretary of the interior ken salazar announced a “preferred alternative” for managing the reserve, putting audubon and its partners on the verge of a conservation victory of staggering scale. the plan, expected to be finalized in december, would designate 11 million acres—roughly the size of massachusetts and connecticut combined—in the reserve as unavailable to oil and gas leasing. the plan includes 96 percent of the priority areas identified in audubon’s conservation recommendations to the department of the interior. while audubon scientists have been fighting for balanced management in the reserve for more than 20 years, victory would have been impossible without the passionate and relentless efforts of audubon activists. in 2011 more than 100 audubon chapters engaged their members—18,000 of them—to send postcards to the interior department supporting protection of the reserve’s key wildlife areas, including teshekpuk lake. this year, when audubon magazine ran a story about the reserve that included a postcard to be mailed to secretary salazar, urging protection of the reserve, many readers did just that. saving habitat cape hatteras national seashore, on north carolina’s outer banks, is visited by hundreds of thousands of americans each year. it also provides vital habitat for a number of audubon priority species, including piping plovers, least terns, and american oystercatchers. in early 2011, in response to a lawsuit filed by the southern environmental law center on behalf of audubon north carolina and defenders of wildlife, the na- tional park service implemented a long-overdue management plan that finally put conservation of these beaches on equal footing with recreation. the plan is already paying off. in 2007 there were no black skimmer nests reported at the seashore; in 2011 there were 99. during the same period, least tern nests rose more than 500 percent, from 194 to 1,048, and sea turtle nests nearly doubled, from 82 to 147. some of the seashore’s human visitors, most notably off-road-vehicle (orv) enthusiasts, are angry about the new rules, and they have pressured the state’s congressional delegation to have them overturned. in response, an army of activists, mobilized by audubon north carolina and like-minded groups, is battling back on behalf of the birds. the state office has gotten its message out through mailings, press releases, its website and blog, and social media. activists are determined to continue fighting for the birds by keeping the pressure on the north carolina legislators who want to overturn the current regulations and return the beach to what one audubon north carolina official calls “an orv free-for-all.”