 a conservation strategy built around a key species is pretty straightforward—and highly effective. it’s also the basis for audubon’s strategic plan, which targets 64 priority bird species and 118 million acres of critical habitat across the americas. if you protect a species by saving significant blocks of its habitat, other species will also benefit. audubon pioneered this approach on behalf of the sage-grouse. last year we worked with the u.s. fish and wildlife service to use the strategy for other imperiled species. next we'll roll out the plan to protect birds beyond the mountain west. saving sage-grouse five years ago, when audubon wyoming set out to save the sagebrush ecosystem, it found the means to create protective policy for the greater sage-grouse. we wanted to steer development in the interior west, especially energy development, to areas where impacts on birds would be minimal. our immediate goal was to identify and protect the most critical sage-grouse habitat. but we also knew that a range of other wildlife would benefit— from grassland birds, including the sage sparrow and the brewer’s sparrow, to pronghorn antelope and elk. while we can protect large chunks of habitat, the reality is that we can’t save everything. so we must focus our conservation strategies on the most valuable places. in wyoming, audubon worked with a range of stakeholders, from state and federal agencies to the oil, gas, and wind industries and ranchers. audubon scientists created maps that pinpointed core areas crucial to the sage-grouse; the 14 million acres they settled on encompassed a little more than 20 percent of wyoming but included breeding habitat for 80 percent of its sage- grouse. taking into consideration research showing that the birds avoid juniper trees and drilling rigs in the winter, and that the related prairie-chicken steers clear of wind turbines, the task force recommended that core area “surface disturbance”—gas wells, wind turbines, roads, pipelines, even overhead transmission lines—be limited to a maximum of five percent of each square mile. today audubon’s pioneering approach to sage-grouse conservation is sweeping across the west. a number of states—washington, oregon, idaho, and nevada—are submitting sage-grouse management plans to the u.s. fish and wildlife service; utah, colorado, and montana have plans in the works, too. audubon’s effort has already protected 15 million acres (and growing) across the west, laying a foundation for responsible energy development in the region. work with the usfws this past year, when the u.s. fish and wildlife service was seeking a cutting-edge core-habitat strategy to use as a model for conservation nationwide, the success of our work with sage-grouse convinced the agency that our approach could be widely applied to other imperiled species and habitats across the hemisphere. as usfws director dan ashe said, “i see great potential in cooperating with audubon to develop common species-based objectives and to work together to ensure landscape--scale conservation is achieved.” audubon’s key species strategy will be the subject of a 2013 forum held by the usfws and the national fish and wildlife foundation and co-hosted by audubon. putting it into practice audubon’s policy, science, and conservation teams have identified additional species that would benefit from the sage-grouse approach. so far we have identified nine key species, representing all four flyways, including the western sandpiper, the lesser prairie-chicken, the cerulean warbler, and the piping plover. one species already benefiting from this strategy is the yellow-billed cuckoo. our western rivers initiative in arizona and new mexico focuses, in part, on the imperiled riparian woodlands the species depends on to survive. by focusing our conservation work on the remaining large tracts of cottonwoods and willows, we can save critical habitat for the yellow-billed cuckoo, currently a candidate for the endangered species list. that will, in turn, benefit other birds, including the southwestern willow flycatcher, and other wildlife as well.