 by focusing our work on five specific strategies, audubon can maximize the impact we have on birds and the habitat they need. putting working lands to work for birds & people best management practices on ranches, farms, and forests hold the key to survival for more than 150 species of threatened grassland and forest birds. by partnering with landowners, audubon can help ensure a bright future for birds like the cerulean warbler and the tricolored blackbird, and a healthy landscape for future generations. sharing our seas & shores coastal areas are a magnet for birds and people alike. unfortunately, overfishing, development, and sea-level rise put 60 percent of coastal birds at risk. by expanding our successful coastal stewardship program, audubon can enlist a growing army of volunteer caretakers of nesting habitats. seabirds are also vulnerable—they make up close to half the species on audubon’s watchlist. by incorporating marine sites into our important bird areas program, audubon can advance policies and practices that will reduce threats such as overfishing and pollution from oil and other causes. saving important bird areas knowing which places are most important for birds is the first step toward conserving them. audubon has identified 2,544 important bird areas in the united states, covering 378 million acres, and is supporting work in some of the 2,345 ibas in latin america, the caribbean, and canada. now we can harness the audubon network to protect, restore, and advocate for these landscapes and the birds that depend on them. shaping a healthy climate & clean energy future climate change poses an unprecedented threat not just to birds but to biodiversity and our shared quality of life. audubon is responding to this challenge with an equally unprecedented combination of strategies, from advancing transformational policies that reduce carbon emissions and support well- sited green energy to leading adaptive land-management practices that will mitigate the impact of sea-level rise and climate change. creating bird-friendly communities most americans live in cities or suburbs, and people can play a critical role in fostering healthy wildlife populations and communities. rural regions have an outsized opportunity to contribute. as the leading voice for birds, audubon can inspire the one in five adults who watches birds to make daily lifestyle choices that add up to real conservation impact.