 audubon was a social network from its inception, when early conservationists formed chapters that opposed the killing of birds for hats and clothing. a century later our social network has truly come to life. we’re communicating vital conservation messages and connecting with increasingly diverse audiences. that might mean giving website visitors an up-close look at a seabird colony, the way we did via puffin cam. or offering nature lovers a chance, with exit the highway, our exciting collaboration with toyota, to join a virtual community and share their favorite nature photos. or providing the latest news from around our network with wingspan, a monthly, flyway-customized email newsletter. this virtual network is providing new support for our mission. we’re using social media to build a bigger audubon community, tripling our social media followers in the past year. we’re also growing fundraising through digital channels: fiscal year 2012 saw a 300 percent increase in net online revenue over the previous year. online channels can also be effective pieces of a larger conservation effort. june’s raise your voice for arctic birds multiplatform campaign (direct mail, email, social media, and public relations) was a collaboration of national audubon’s engagement and policy teams, the audubon alaska state program, and our partners at the american birding association to raise support for protecting critical habitat in alaska. conservation doesn't have a party conservation is not left, right, or center—it’s common sense. in 2012 audubon, in partnership with the republican organization conservamerica, launched a bold campaign, “because conservation doesn’t have a party,” to engage people all along the political spectrum. nearly 120,000 people signed the american eagle compact and participated via a blog and social media in an attempt to lift conservation above the partisan rancor that prevents any progress on resolving congressional gridlock. toyota and togethergreen: 48,000 people exit the highway last summer toyota and audubon challenged people to “exit the highway.” by pledging to spend time in nature and by submitting photos digitally—through facebook, twitter, instagram, or a mobile- optimized website—campaign participants could win a toyota prius. 1remembering the gulf spill: oil & birds don't mix a virtual oil slick oozed down the audubon website last spring to commemorate the second anniversary of the deepwater horizon disaster. in response, 9,000 people took action by sharing through social media, donating, and writing letters to legislators. social media: facebook, twitter & beyond audubon now reaches 60,000 people on facebook and 22,000 on twitter, and more on such networks as tumblr and pinterest. in addition, in 2012 we quadrupled engagement rates with more followers liking, sharing, and re-tweeting audubon news to their own networks. travels with melody: following a migrating plover in october online supporters were introduced to melody, a fictional piping plover, as she migrated from long island to the bahamas. the campaign, with email updates and an interactive story map, highlighted audubon's efforts for shorebirds along the atlantic flyway. puffin cam: a visit to a seabird colony through a partnership with the annenberg foundation's explore.org, audubon streamed the daily actions of atlantic puffins and ospreys live from maine's seal island to more than a million screens across the country, recruiting new supporters for audubon's project puffin. remembering the gulf spill: oil & birds don't mix a virtual oil slick oozed down the audubon website last spring to commemorate the second anniversary of the deepwater horizon disaster. in response, 9,000 people took action by sharing through social media, donating, and writing letters to legislators. social media: facebook, twitter & beyond audubon now reaches 60,000 people on facebook and 22,000 on twitter, and more on such networks as tumblr and pinterest. in addi- tion, in 2012 we quadrupled engagement rates with more followers liking, sharing, and re-tweeting audubon news to their own networks. travels with melody: following a migrating plover in october online supporters were introduced to melody, a fictional piping plover, as she migrated from long island to the bahamas. the campaign, with email updates and an interactive story map, highlighted audubon's efforts for shorebirds along the atlantic flyway. toyota and togethergreen: 48,000 people exit the highway last summer toyota and audubon challenged people to “exit the highway.” by pledging to spend time in nature and by submitting photos digitally—through facebook, twitter, instagram, or a mobile- optimized website—campaign participants could win a toyota prius. action alert! engagement made easy with our regular audubon action alerts, we rally members of our growing online community to get engaged in today's most pressing matters: defending beach-nesting birds in north carolina, for example. with a click, a visitor can learn more and get involved.