 climate change poses a threat not just to birds but to the earth’s overall biodiversity. in recent years audubon scientists have analyzed 305 bird species that winter in north america; we found that nearly 60 of those species are shifting their range north by an average of 35 miles. in a science-based world, there is no debate: climate change is real and must be addressed in a serious way. hurricane sandy and other recent extreme weather have only driven home the point. audubon is responding to this challenge with an unprecedented combination of strategies: fighting dangerous oil drilling in one of the country’s most critical habitats for birds; supporting green energy that’s sited to minimize impact on wildlife; advancing policies that reduce carbon emissions; and promoting land management practices to mitigate the impact of sea-level rise. protecting the arctic this year audubon worked like never before to stop efforts by one company to drill in the seabed off alaska’s arctic coast. offshore oil drilling in the arctic is a risky and reckless gamble. the weather is violent, the seas are ice-covered much of the year, and it’s dark for months at a time. an oil spill there would be a catastrophe, and the cleanup would make cleaning up the gulf oil spill look like child’s play. the u.s. coast guard has described the prospects of addressing a spill here as “pretty abysmal.” and yet oil companies have set their sights on drilling in the arctic ocean, endangering millions of birds, precious habitat, and a way of life for thousands of indigenous people. when royal dutch shell announced plans to drill off the north slope of alaska, audubon and its conservation partners sprang into action. audubon and a coalition of other environmental groups legally challenged shell’s lease and exploration plans. the fact that shell preemptively sued audubon and 12 other environmental groups—apparently believing that its deep pockets would dampen our resolve—did not prevent us from taking further legal action. we have filed suit in federal district court challenging the interior department’s approval of shell’s oil-spill-response plans, asserting that those plans violated provisions of the clean water act, the national environmental policy act, and the endangered species act. arctic birds received a temporary lifeline this summer. as audubon took the battle to court and raised our voice in the press, our activists and supporters helped by contacting legislators and spreading the word through social media, creating a climate that would not stand for shell’s mistakes. with an astonishing succession of mishaps— including a drill ship that broke free of its moorings and mechanical failures on its oil-spill-response vessel—and with time running out on the summer drilling season, shell was forced to scale back its plans—though with full intention of proceeding next year. audubon will continue to fight back, bringing the passion and action of the network to bear to protect this region so critical to birds. bird-friendly wind wind is a crucial part of a climate-friendly energy policy, and audubon has long believed that a key issue in the debate is wind siting that minimizes impacts on birds. in 2012 the department of the interior announced new wind energy siting guidelines that will reduce america’s dependence on fossil fuels while protecting birds. the agreement, the result of years of collaboration between energy companies and conservation groups, marked the first time that all major wind developers pledged to follow a nationwide protective standard outlined in bird-friendly guidelines. while bird mortality from turbine towers and blades is a major concern, it’s not the only one. audubon pushed to make sure the guidelines address habitat fragmentation: the parceling of forests and grasslands, which makes them less suitable for wildlife. the guidelines were developed with the assistance of a 22-member wind turbine guidelines advisory committee, which besides audubon included the nature conservancy, defenders of wildlife, massachusetts audubon, bat conservation international, and tribal representatives. the american wind wildlife institute, which includes every major wind company, was a full partner. when interior secretary ken salazar announced the guidelines, he pointed out that a plan endorsed by both the american wind energy association and audubon speaks “volumes about our goals: to do everything we can to stand up for renewable energy” while protecting wildlife and habitat. cleaner energy in late 2011, after four years of legal battles, national audubon, audubon arkansas, and the sierra club won an important victory that will reduce greenhouse-gas emissions and improve air quality in arkansas. the settlement, with american electric power and its subsidiary, southwestern electric power co. (swepco), allowed the utilities to build a new, cleaner power plant in arkansas in return for closing an older, dirtier one in nearby texas. the agreement also required swepco to conserve significant wetlands and forests in perpetuity; promote energy efficiency in surrounding states; and replace coal by buying hundreds of megawatts of new clean energy in the region. the utility also agreed to limit the development of new plants and transmission lines within important natural areas surrounding the plant. rising sea levels audubon fights for climate change action beyond legislatures and the courts. our practical, science-based response to sea-level rise is on display in the work we’re doing for atlantic flyway saltmarsh birds. the u.s. fish and wildlife service recently announced a nearly $1 million grant, matched by more than $500,000 in non- federal funds, to protect and restore 450 acres of tidal marsh and other habitats on maryland’s eastern shore. audubon maryland-dc and other partners will assist with the restoration. this land lies within a landscape of ecologically significant marshes that is particularly vulnerable to climate change, and audubon is partnering with the conservation fund and the blackwater national wildlife refuge to identify the marshes most likely to adapt to sea-level rise. the project will enhance tidal wetlands to benefit black rails, bald eagles, american black ducks, saltmarsh sparrows, and other birds.