 droughts and water shortages, more intense hurricanes and coastal storms, increased transmission of diseases, and declining habitats for plant and animal species are already linked to climate change. scientists now agree that the burning of fossil fuels and the destruction of forests and other natural habitats are largely responsible for these changes. the challenge could not be greater, nor the need for action more urgent. ci is rising to the challenge. mitigating the impact of climate change is our highest priority. our first strategic plan more than 20 years ago identified climate change as a major threat to human well-being. for more than a decade, we have been at the forefront of studying the impact of climate change on the world’s species and natural habitats. we have helped to focus the world’s attention on the contribution that biodiversity conservation makes toward mitigating climate change. deforestation accounts for about 20 percent or more of global carbon dioxide emissions—more than all the world’s cars, trucks and planes combined. by preserving forests, ci and our partners help to stem global climate change while securing the fresh water, fertile soils, abundant wildlife and other benefits that healthy forests provide to local people. with our partners, we have launched groundbreaking initiatives for climate, community and biodiversity conservation in china, madagascar, south africa, ecuador and the philippines. in january 2008, ci convened a retreat of our top leaders from around the world. chairman and ceo peter seligmann challenged the team to create an even more ambitious strategy. over the following weeks, experts from all of ci’s regional programs and technical divisions developed a business plan to harness nature as a solution to climate change. scientists, program directors and communications staff across ci worked together on a strategy that would appeal to world leaders, policymakers and investors. the team set an ambitious goal to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by up to two billion tons per year by conserving forests and other natural habitat in our priority regions and that would also help millions of people and more than 100,000 threatened species in those areas adapt to the impacts of climate change. ci’s board of directors approved the plan in february, and members of ci’s chairman’s council helped us secure more than $10 million to begin implementing the plan. over the next three years, we will invest with partners in brazil, indonesia, guyana, liberia, south africa and the eastern tropical pacific seascape to show that ecosystem conservation is an effective strategy to mitigate climate change and to adapt to its impacts. we will apply our cuttingedge scientific research to develop innovative strategies that combine climate, biodiversity and community benefits. we will partner with leaders in the private sector to mobilize hundreds of millions of dollars to reduce emissions from deforestation. we will work with government officials in the united states, europe and the united nations to develop a new policy framework for combating climate change that combines innovations in energy efficiency and clean energy technologies with financial incentives for developing nations to preserve their forests, coral reefs and other natural habitats. we will build the capacity of indigenous communities, ngos and government agencies in key countries to implement this strategy. to achieve these goals, we will communicate the urgency of climate change and the effectiveness of biodiversity conservation as a solution to key audiences around the world. ci’s climate change business plan is an example of the unique impact that we can have as a global organization to help nations realize the inherent value of nature to the well-being of their people. we can help societies harness their biodiversity as an asset for sustainable development. this is ci’s mission. helping the world tackle climate change is one of the most important ways we can pursue it.