 we are beyond a point of esoteric questioning. the very fabric of our life systems is imperiled. it’s not just the physical manifestations of a rapidly changing climate, it is also emotionally threatening, especially for young people who fear what lies ahead. dear friends, today, that sentiment applies also to the unprecedented global health crisis gripping the planet. as we move past this crisis — and we will, though it may not seem so today — the global community must regroup with a singular focus to change how we value nature both in terms of our core values and in terms of our economic values. as we look to the future, we must address climate breakdown and our disconnect with the natural world with every single fiber of our beings, our brains, our imaginations. if we don’t, it will be our greatest regret. and yet, i am tremendously encouraged. after decades working on the problem, last year at the united nations climate action summit, i saw children on climate strike, indigenous peoples protesting in the streets, and the realization among the most powerful institutions that there is a rising new majority of voters and consumers. we have reached a new level of intensity. certainly, there are powerful forces yet to overcome. but markets are recognizing the opportunities in transforming energy systems. financial institutions are recognizing the risk in the status quo. conservation international is in the unique position of focusing on naturebased parts of the solution. we must redouble our efforts to protect and secure the extraordinary parts of the world that store carbon and shelter wildlife — the same efforts that science shows will greatly improve our chances of averting another pandemic. we must take a dual approach. first, we need to think carefully about how to put the value of nature into economic systems. natural capital accounting is a tool to quantify the intrinsic value of nature as well as the cost of short-sighted destruction. and sustainable development based on conservation creates value for local communities. furthermore, we must make certain there is a shift in moral values. ensuring the security of the earth must be a core tenet. this goes beyond our economic and political systems. it’s about our place, what we believe and who we are. i discussed last year that indigenous peoples cherish the earth. it’s about a sense of reciprocity, that if we don’t take care of the earth, neither can we prosper. everything that matters to us, as human beings, is connected to nature. by saving nature, we can save everything else that matters. the work conservation international did this past year was especially critical. progress includes a fund to support the south american-led leticia pact, early fire warning systems and restoration projects in the amazon. every single success at conservation international is built on determination, an unwillingness to accept the status quo and trust emerging from solid partnerships. this makes two vital characteristics about conservation international clear. first, it’s easy to talk about partnerships. but for partnerships to work it requires trust, time and dedication. for more than three decades we have linked arms with an extraordinary diversity of cultures, communities, companies, organizations and nations. we are serious about addressing the looming climate challenges facing humanity. we are serious about earning the trust of our partners and collectively forging impactful alliances. it is inspiring to look at the conservation international team. it is deep in experience and impact. and, just as importantly, the diversity of cultures at conservation international gives us the rare ability to design solutions that work for different communities in different places across this amazing earth. it is only through diversity that we will have the open-mindedness required to secure the health of nature for all of humanity. this is our commitment and this is our promise.