 this trajectory from research and field demonstration to policy, public engagement and economic innovation led to two of ci’s most stunning successes: the signing of the coral triangle initiative agreement and international recognition of the importance of forest conservation and adaptation at the climate conference in copenhagen. working in concert with the nature conservancy, world wildlife fund and a host of regional partners, ci helped with the establishment of the coral triangle initiative on coral reefs, fisheries and food security—an agreement among the leaders of indonesia, the philippines, timor leste, papua new guinea, solomon islands and malaysia to protect their natural marine ecosystems. this multinational effort was one of ci’s most resounding successes in fy09. the coral triangle initiative promotes ci’s approach to large-scale seascape management, strengthens the regional network of marine protected areas, improves fisheries, protects threatened species and helps these countries adapt to the effects of climate change. the initiative is the result of years of integrated research, local efforts, income development activities, expanded protection of marine areas and new income opportunities for local people. ci helped catalyze the monumental collaboration necessary to improve ocean health and protect food security for millions of coastal residents in the asia-pacific region. another major achievement was the inclusion of redd+ (reducing emissions from deforestation and degradation + sustainable management of forests) and the establishment of initial funding to support redd+ and adaptation actions in the copenhagen accord—an outcome of the international climate conference in copenhagen in december 2009. that success represents the culmination of a concerted effort that began more than three years ago, when ci and a coalition of dedicated partners joined forward-thinking countries who were making the case that the protection of tropical forests was vital to any successful solution to slow and adapt to climate change. in fy09 in particular, we brokered agreements and pushed for federal action via the avoided deforestation partners group and the high-profile governors’ global climate summit convened by california governor arnold schwarzenegger. we fostered a robust voluntary forest carbon market through the climate community and biodiversity alliance, a ci-coordinated coalition, developing a reliable and verifiable mechanism to validate forest carbon projects that also evaluates their impact on biological diversity and people. the ci-facilitated indigenous advisory group provided advice and feedback to promote understanding of the needs, priorities and concerns of indigenous peoples related to climate change. ci experts also joined the national delegations of eight countries—including costa rica, indonesia and the philippines—and advised over 30 country delegations that house tropical forests, helping them advocate for the value of those forests at copenhagen. although copenhagen failed to deliver the hoped-for binding international agreements, the endorsement of redd+ confirms the importance of forests to climate change actions and jump-started real, forward-looking action on the ground.