 at ci, we have transformed the way we do our work, but many things remain unchanged—our commitment to partnerships and field work, and, in particular, our deep commitment to scientific pursuit. in fy09, ci’s experts worked with scientific, academic and private sector partners as well as local communities to conduct, assemble and assess groundbreaking research on biodiversity, climate change, freshwater resources and other issues, expanding the development of useful science about the intricate linkages between nature and human well-being. on land and at sea, our rapid assessment programs led a roster of crack scientific teams to identify species-new-to-science, previously unknown populations of species and other discoveries in places as diverse as colombia, ecuador, guyana, madagascar, papua new guinea and venezuela. our scientists also helped to identify and map the distribution of more than 20,000 freshwater species (fishes, dragonflies, amphibians, turtles and more) worldwide. ci led environmental assessments that found that one-third of the world’s reef-building corals face elevated extinction risk from climate change and local impacts, and that the galapagos islands and the verde island passage in the philippines must develop climate adaptation strategies to avoid irreparable damage to biodiversity and livelihoods. in fy09, ci also presented preliminary results of a five-year study demonstrating the positive ecological and socio-economic results derived from the effective management of marine managed areas (mmas). this year, our scientists continued to develop and hone tools to help decision-makers at all levels and in every sector evaluate the relationships between their actions and the ecosystems that support sustainable economic growth. examples include aries (artificial intelligence for ecosystem science), which uses field and satellite measurements with google maps in order to understand how ecosystem services flow across landscapes and estimate the potential costs and benefits of various development scenarios; team (the tropical ecology assessment and monitoring network), an “early warning system” that monitors ecosystem services in order to help inform political, business and agricultural development decisions; and osiris (the open source impacts of redd incentives spreadsheet), which enables countries to calculate how much income they would likely receive and how much global greenhouse gas emissions would be reduced under various models to avoid deforestation. these scientific and technical innovations were central to ci’s efforts in fy09, and they spurred action from the necessary stakeholders in many places across the globe. in fact, it was these demonstrations of the value of nature that, along with years of collaboration and local engagement, led to the creation of new nature reserves, parks and protected areas totaling nearly three million hectares (7.4 million acres). in brazil, these efforts led to the establishment of multiple new protected areas, including the sustainably managed cassuruba marine extractive reserve, which will protect a large and diverse coastal habitat and support the livelihoods of 20,000 fishermen. in cambodia, the government endorsed a plan proposed by ci that will triple the coverage of freshwater sanctuaries within tonle sap, the largest lake in southeast asia and a critical resource for both freshwater conservation and for food security. ci worked with 35 local villages, the woodland park zoo and multiple partners to establish papua new guinea’s first-ever national conservation area. through the critical ecosystem partnership fund (cepf), ci helped coordinate establishment of the uluguru nature reserve in tanzania, which will protect biodiversity and the critical water source for dar es salaam, home to 2.8 million people. in namibia, with support from ci, cepf also helped establish the sperrgebiet national park— the largest single-area proclamation in africa in the last 20 years. ci continued to secure landscapes and local engagement through payment for ecosystem services agreements around the world, empowering communities in china to protect giant panda (ailuropoda melanoleuca) habitat, freshwater resources and traditional ways of life. with ci’s help, and through the use of conservation agreements, the government of ecuador established socio bosque (“forest partners” in english), a national initiative that pays private landowners and indigenous communities and aims to protect millions of hectares of forest, reduce carbon emissions for global benefit and provide reliable income for 1.5 million people living in the poorest areas of ecuador. furthering our role as the catalyst for innovative partnerships, ci helped to negotiate a $30-million debt-for-nature swap, the largest of its kind, between the united states and indonesia to protect the habitats of endangered species like the sumatran tiger (panthera tigris sumatrae) and orangutan (pongo abelii) while providing livelihoods for indonesia’s people. we also rallied the resources and commitment of corporate leaders like starbucks, walmart and toyota to lower corporate emissions and protect thousands of acres of tropical forest. dell’s support of forest projects in madagascar’s fandriana-vondrozo forest corridor will help the company offset its corporate greenhouse gas emissions, and in november 2009, the walt disney company made the largest single corporate contribution ever towards reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation, demonstrating to national and international leaders that the protection of forests is fundable, as well as important, work. beyond expanding these relationships with known and new communities, corporations and countries worldwide, ci proved the power of public outreach through two massive public engagement campaigns in fy09. the international “lost there, felt here” campaign featured harrison ford and makes the case for the shared impact of lost forests, and incorporates the award-winning “protect an acre” online tool, through which members donated more than $600,000 in fy09 alone to support the protection of forests and climate change mitigation efforts. the year also marked the launch of team earth, a broad-based outreach effort designed to rally smart, sustainable actions on the individual and cumulative scales.