 in addition to helping pacific island states establish protected areas, ci provides essential funding to ensure they continue to benefit the people who depend on them. in fy14, for example, ci completed a us$ 3 million contribution to the island states of palau, the federated states of micronesia and the republic of the marshall islands in support of the micronesia challenge—a visionary pledge those nations made alongside guam and the northern mariana islands in 2006 to effectively conserve at least 30 percent of near-shore marine resources and 20 percent of land across micronesia by 2020. in june 2014, tong took another important step: announcing that pipa will close to all commercial fishing effective january 1, 2015. this bold move aims to strengthen tuna stocks that will ultimately be available to commercial fishing outside the protected area for generations to come. to foster similar achievements in ocean conservation and support the ongoing management of pipa (also the world’s largest unesco world heritage site), ci and the government of kiribati provided a financial boost in fy14, with each investing us$ 2.5 million in the pipa conservation trust. “pipa is more than just a marine protected area. it is an investment the future of kiribati,” president tong says. “with pipa, we are investing in our economy, our children, our cultural heritage and on a more global scale, we are investing in preserving food security for the world.” fellow island territory new caledonia joined kiribati in the protection of the pacific ocean with the legal establishment of the natural park of the coral sea in may 2014. covering nearly 1.3 million square kilometers (502,000 square miles)—or three times the area of germany—this park is now the largest multi-use protected area on earth, joining the safeguarded waters of the world’s largest lagoon: the 16,000-square-kilometer (6,000-square-mile) lagoons of new caledonia world heritage site. together, these areas bring 90 percent of the french territory’s water under protection. the waters surrounding new caledonia contain some of the world’s healthiest and well-preserved coral reefs, harboring 2,500-3,000 metric tons of fish. the region also boasts 48 species of shark, 25 marine mammal species, 19 species of nesting birds and five kinds of sea turtles—all of which attract tourists and their money to the country’s scenic beaches. next steps will involve the government, ci, partners and representatives of the indigenous kanak people working together over the next three years to build a management plan that will divide the park into different zones based on allowed activities, such as fishing.