 2020 was a different kind of year, one that ripped apart our preconceptions and laid bare some devastating truths. it revealed our vulnerability to illness and disease. it reinforced the consequences of neglecting our climate. and it exposed the damage that systemic racism continues to inflict on oppressed communities around the world. it was also, in my mind, one of the most consequential years in conservation international’s history. our leadership team, and our entire staff, responded to these challenges with integrity and honesty while never losing sight of our collective commitment to secure the health of the earth for all of humanity. as you will read in this report, we made extraordinary alliances with communities, collaborating to protect their places from harm. we forged strong partnerships with corporations, based upon their commitment to reduce the impact of their operations while committing resources to protect forests and oceans at an accelerating pace. and we worked with governments so they could further their commitments to protecting the health of their nations and their people. we have a strong and healthy organization, one with the agility, wisdom and ambition to achieve our goals over the next few years. these efforts will require us to maintain this disposition and combine it with an insistent and reinvigorated intensity. because here is another hard truth: the task of keeping global temperatures from rising above 1.5 degrees is enormous. we are not on that pathway yet, and we will only get there by making dramatic and immediate changes. this is a daunting task, but the good news is that we are facing it with more potential allies than ever before. what is now crystal clear to so many is that every person on earth has the right to a healthy planet. caring for the earth is a unifying platform that has the power to activate young people, transform the behavior of companies and activate the commitments of governments. our task now is to forge new partnerships and develop innovative new solutions. we will need to be agile. we will need to be creative. we will need your support.