 protecting nature is just one choice among many that countries and communities make. unfortunately, the long-term benefit of conserving a forest or a fishery cannot always compete with the short-term economic gains associated with exploiting it. conservation international is flipping that script by aligning incentives to make nature’s value visible to decision-makers — and creating powerful monetary incentives to keep ecosystems intact while accounting for people’s reliance on these places for their lives and livelihoods. in the past year, we launched conservation international ventures, an investment fund that provides loans to small- and medium-sized local businesses that are committed to benefiting nature and human well-being. with an initial $14 million already raised, ci ventures deployed its first loan — disbursed in september 2018 and since repaid — to a coffee co-operative in peru that is committed to keeping forests intact. additional investments will be made in the coming year to fill a key financing gap and enable businesses to make a profit and protect nature at the same time. this is the same idea behind the liberia conservation fund, launched by conservation international and the government. the fund — the first of its kind in liberia — aims to provide sustainable, long-term financing for the country’s protected areas by setting up endowments to support individual protected areas. with conservation international and liberia each committing an initial $1 million, the fund means the country has a guaranteed source of funding for long-term conservation of its rich ecosystems, including some of the last intact forests in west africa. we know that investing in conservation works. one study published by conservation international last year showed that investment curbed deforestation in madagascar; another showed that investing in biodiversity is good for the economy. in 2018, we demonstrated that it is possible to make — and replicate — the large-scale investments necessary to protect the nature we need.