 dear friends, the 1,000 people working for conservation international (ci) in over 30 countries are realists. we work with governments, businesses and communities. the security and prosperity of hundreds of millions of people across this beautiful planet are exposed to the devastating threats caused by the erosion of ecological vitality: water and food shortages, extreme weather events, exposure to disease and loss of livelihoods. in response to this global pandemic, our commitment is to build and to support local, national and international breakthroughs in securing nature for the health and well-being of humanity. our commitment is to act with urgency to conserve nature’s bounty. on the following pages, you will find illustrations of how we are responding to this challenge and the encouraging results that our approach—founded on partnerships—is having. you will read about our collaboration with starbucks to transform how coffee is produced. if starbucks can source coffee sustainably, can we lead the entire coffee industry to do the same? we are committed to doing so. if coffee is produced sustainably, why not other commodities, such as palm oil or soy or tuna? we think this can be done. these are the types of questions that continue to drive us at ci as we scan the business landscape looking for where we can leverage the power of the private sector. working with the business community is only one part of how we get results. good governance and enlightened policy are essential if we are to find a sustainable development path. ci engages with governments around the world as a trusted advisor on policies affecting natural capital. you will read in this report about the pacific oceanscape, a vision spearheaded by president of the republic of kiribati and ci board member anote tong, to galvanize a joint conservation commitment of 23 pacific nations and territories to sustainably manage an area of ocean the size of the moon’s surface. with strong support from ci, these countries have set aside protected areas of historic size to begin making the pacific oceanscape a reality. while this has been a year of breakthroughs, events also occurred that underscore the urgency of our work. in november 2013, typhoon haiyan struck the philippines with crushing force. the losses to life and property were heart rending. scientists have predicted that the warming of the climate and rising sea levels may intensify the impacts of these types of storms and erode the resilience of ecosystems. tragedies like this strengthen our resolve to protect the forests, coral reefs and other ecosystems that will enable all of us to adapt to a changing climate. while our successes confirm our belief in the path we have taken, we are continually reminded of the need to think and act bigger. that spirit is what gives me such pride in the people of ci—our staff, our board, our friends and our families across the world. as nelson mandela, whose passing we mourned in december 2013, famously said, “there is no passion to be found in playing small.” together we are making a very big play—a play for our very future on this ever-astonishing planet. your passion makes this big play possible. thank you.