 fiscal year 2012 was a remarkable year— and a sobering one. no nation on earth was spared by the convergence of the two extraordinary forces shaping our planet: climate change and ecological loss. we saw these forces in a superstorm on the east coast of the united states, in the continued devastation of our oceans, in water crises and droughts across asia and africa. this is our reality. and if humanity is going to continue to thrive—if we are to create a habitable, just, prosperous world for our children and grandchildren —we must change. that is why conservation international works at every level—from remote villages to the offices of presidents and ceos—to help societies understand, and act upon, the most important truth of our time: people need nature to thrive. our approach is simple, yet transformative. we are protecting our natural wealth—the essential places on earth that provide our food, water and the very air we breathe—by ensuring that the most critical areas remain intact and capable of providing benefits to the communities that need them. we are fostering effective governance. working with governments and civil society, we provide tools, counsel and training that enable leaders to make better decisions for the long-term health and economic stability of their people. and we are working with businesses that have big environmental impacts—like mining, energy and agricultural companies—to ensure that production does not destroy the ecological health and vitality of nations. throughout the year, we saw concrete evidence that our efforts are paying off. we launched vital signs, an ambitious scientific project that will help us answer the question of how we can feed 9 billion people by 2050 without destroying nature. we partnered with the government of botswana to convene a summit, where 10 african nations agreed to incorporate nature’s value into their day-to-day decision-making and accounting. and around the world, we worked with communities, governments, businesses and foundations to safeguard the oceans, forests, rivers, savannas and wetlands that sustain and amaze us. as you read about these and other successes, we encourage you to take special note of ci’s organizational growth. each year, more and more governments and businesses are joining us in the realization that it is in their enlightened self-interest to protect the planet. thanks to our many allies, our organization remains strong and on sound footing. in fiscal year 2012, our expenses totaled over $150 million—the highest level of programmatic delivery in ci’s history. and we saw significant growth in programs central to our mission— including our ecosystem finance and markets division and our field programs in indonesia and brazil. we have much to be proud of. yet we know that, in the words of the great poet robert frost, we have miles to go before we sleep. ours is a tremendous challenge. with champions like you, however, we are as confident as we’ve ever been that we will rise to it.