 nestlé s.a. is the world’s largest food company, producing everything from chocolate and coffee to dairy products and bouillon cubes and operating in 86 countries. but where does nestlé get all this food? to ponder this question is to understand the massive impact an industry leader like nestlé can make on our planet’s natural capital—like healthy forests—through its sourcing of agricultural materials for products and packaging. and it demonstrates why conservation international works with influential partners like nestlé, whose leadership can catalyze widespread transformation. with a growing global population, we must find ways to feed everyone without undermining the earth’s ability to continue to provide for us into the future. conservation international has long recognized that private industry represents a vital part of the solution to preserving the health of our planet. we work with businesses from small-scale farmer co-ops to the world’s largest corporations. in 2000, we established the center for environmental leadership in business to help companies minimize their environmental impacts. as more companies have begun to embrace sustainability, we are leveraging their size and scale to develop and implement innovative solutions that result in net positive benefits for people and the planet. such was the case when duncan pollard, nestlé’s head of stakeholders engagement in sustainability, approached conservation international in 2012 for help. nestlé had already made an ambitious commitment to zero net deforestation by 2020 as a member of the consumer goods forum. that means a commitment to stopping deforestation by making smart choices about how they source commodities such as soy, palm oil, beef, paper and board—in a way that encourages producers not to expand into forested areas. as duncan says, “nestlé believes that destruction of tropical rainforest and peat lands to cultivate crops is one of the most serious environmental issues facing us today, and we want to be a force in combating deforestation. we know we use some raw materials that have been linked to deforestation and loss of biodiversity, such as palm oil, soya, and paper and board. so we’ve made a commitment to ensure that the raw and packaging materials we source are not associated with any damage to existing forests.” but, with buying stations all over the world— and hundreds of thousands of direct suppliers and individual farmers delivering materials to them—it was hard to know where to begin. nestlé was determined to ensure its plan did not exist solely as a concept at its swiss headquarters, but could be implemented globally, with the ability to track progress. nestlé needed guidance. to inform nestlé’s sourcing strategy, conservation international and nestlé began with analysis of the company’s key commoditysourcing countries that are most affected by deforestation—from the expansion of livestock farming in brazil to palm oil development in liberia. we used existing research and satellite data to illustrate the areas at the greatest risk of deforestation. the result was a series of detailed maps for 33 priority countries that provide significant information for sourcing decisions. accompanying factsheets contain other relevant data, such as the percentage of primary forest in a country, the key drivers of its deforestation and the percentage of its economy comprised by agriculture. by sharing the maps and factsheets with its operational teams worldwide, nestlé has armed employees with a useful tool to work toward the company’s zero net deforestation pledge. for example, a coffee buyer seeing buying regions of colombia or indonesia might trigger a deeper investigation to understand if coffee is actually causing the deforestation in those countries. “the maps make it easier for us to see where deforestation is happening,” says duncan. “we’ve found them particularly helpful for some countries, including ethiopia, honduras and papua new guinea, where it was difficult to track accurate data. this should also help us to better track our supply chain from farm to fork.” nestlé and conservation international have made all of the information publicly available to encourage others—including nestlé’s competitors—to improve their sourcing practices as well. “the guidance provided by conservation international can and should change the way companies, governments and civil society view the problem of deforestation. there is so much our industry can do in our supply chains by making a concerted effort to address the issue,” says duncan. john buchanan, conservation international’s senior director of sustainable food and agriculture markets, emphasizes that successful collaborations like the nestlé partnership remind us of the critical role that private sector leaders can play in solving global environmental challenges. “food security is a global issue, but as the world seeks ways to produce more food, it has to be sustainable. after all, food is a product of nature, and neither farmers nor companies can thrive when nature fails.”