 if humanity vanished tomorrow, nature would go on without us. yet we are totally dependent on nature. every breath, every bite, every drop, our health and our prosperity—it all comes from nature. our oceans, forests, rivers, wetlands and savannahs are our lifelines. despite this, the natural world is being chopped down, burned, poisoned and used up at an alarming rate. the convergence of ecological loss with the impacts of a changing climate and a rapidly growing global population is creating the perfect storm. in just four decades, there will be more than 9 billion people living on earth, and the global middle class will jump from 1 billion to 3 billion. global demand for water, energy and food will double. conflicts between and within nations for water, and the other goods and services that nature provides, may intensify. if we do not change the course we’re on, we will need two earths to sustain us. we only have one. this challenge may seem insurmountable, but it is not. communities, businesses and governments across the globe are waking up to the severity of the problems we face, to the interconnectedness of our pale blue dot, and to the reality that saving nature is the only way to save ourselves. at conservation international, we have responded by refining our strategy to become more focused and better positioned to find transformative solutions. we are identifying and protecting the spectacular but vulnerable places on land and at sea; working with the private sector to promote sustainable business practices; and engaging with governments to ensure they have the knowledge and tools to make decisions that will benefit humanity now and for generations to come. in fy13, we narrowed our focus to six geographic priorities: amazonia, the eastern tropical pacific seascape, the pacific oceanscape, the greater mekong region, indonesia and sub-saharan africa. these places were selected because of their unique concentrations of natural wealth, because leaders in the regions have demonstrated a willingness to think outside the box when it comes to securing the economic and social stability of their people, and because these geographies are large enough to show measurable impact at scale. within these geographies and at a global scale, we provide critical tools to businesses, governments and others to help them make informed decisions regarding their natural wealth. in fy13, we launched the ocean health index (www.oceanhealthindex.org), the first comprehensive, open-access, global assessment of our oceans and the benefits they provide to people. (read more about the ocean health index on page 18.) throughout fy13, we also engaged the private sector—because no effort to protect our planet will be successful if it fails to ensure that business can continue to be an engine for economic growth and jobs without further depleting the foundation of our natural wealth. we revitalized our business and sustainability council—a corporate forum where members can collaborate with conservation international’s scientific and sustainability experts, and each other, to share success stories and pilot new and innovative demonstration projects. we also worked with many companies directly, including but not limited to exxon mobil, bhp billiton, starbucks and nestlé. frequently, the reach of our engagement extended well beyond our partners. in the case of nestlé, we gathered satellite data from 32 supplier countries to show which regions within the countries are most at risk from deforestation. nestlé is using this information to source its top commodities more sustainably—and sharing these results with the 400+ members of the consumer goods forum, all of whom have committed to achieving zero-net deforestation from their global supply chains by 2020. (read more about our work with nestlé on page 24.) finally, we worked with all sectors of society in fy13 to ensure that the places that sustain humanity are safeguarded. achieving large-scale on-the-ground results requires building trust with a range of stakeholders—which takes both time and honesty—but as we saw throughout the year, the payoff is immense. since 2000, conservation international has worked closely with partners in the guiana shield, in south america, to secure wilderness areas and to prevent deforestation. our efforts began in brazil and expanded to suriname and guyana. this year, we made great progress working with suriname’s indigenous communities to identify and map the places that are especially important to their culture, economy and recreation. the maps have formed a key input for the pending creation of what will be the final piece of the largest contiguous protected primary forest in the world, an area covering 14 million hectares. in the pacific, conservation international has worked alongside island leaders since 2006 to help them safeguard their natural wealth. initially, we provided counsel and support to president anote tong of kiribati on the design and implementation of the phoenix island protected area. others in the region hoped to follow in kiribati’s footsteps, but the challenges of securing vast ocean expanses loomed. undaunted, conservation international worked closely with the pacific islands forum and regional agencies to design the pacific oceanscape, an ambitious framework for sustainably managing 10 percent of the ocean’s surface, endorsed by the leaders of 15 pacific island countries in 2010. in fy13, members of the pacific islands forum made historic commitments to ocean conservation, including a 1.2-millionsquare- kilometer marine park in the cook islands and a 1.4-million-square-kilometer marine protected area in new caledonia. and four years after its launch, an effort in peru’s alto mayo protected forest— with partners as diverse as the peruvian government, disney and local smallholder farmers—has reduced carbon emissions from deforestation by 2.5 million metric tons, the equivalent of taking 500,000 cars off the road for a year. (read more about our work in alto mayo on page 12.) but this is just a snapshot of the vital work we’re doing. as you’ll see in the pages that follow, we are taking many more bold actions to protect our planet and ensure human well-being around the world. these successes are shaping our future and, as we succeed, will define who we are and why conservation international is a special institution. we have extraordinary drive and a commitment to constantly learn and improve. we also know that success depends upon our ability to partner with others. in fact, every effort is carried out in close collaboration with carefully selected, truly exceptional organizations. we are actively involved in productive partnerships with the governments of china, the united states, the eu, france, japan, brazil, indonesia, cambodia, peru, colombia, guyana, suriname, botswana, liberia, south africa, kiribati, the cook islands and fiji. we have deepening relationships with major foundations and multilateral agencies such as the gates foundation, the rockefeller foundation, the walton family foundation, the world bank and the inter american development bank. and finally, conservation international could not exist without the amazing commitment and generosity of our many donors and supporters. it is an honor and a privilege to have you on our side—and to be working together for our noble cause.