 ci is deeply grateful for the support of the gordon and betty moore foundation—our largest institutional donor—whose long-term funding, including $79 million in fy08, has enabled ci to increase our strategic partnerships, expand the scientific inquiry that underpins our efforts and build our own and our partners’ institutional capacity. in just this past year, from one generous individual, ci received $10 million—nearly half of the $21 million needed to launch our innovative new climate change business plan. the walton family foundation renewed support for ci’s seascape initiative, approving two grants for more than $26 million over three years. ci and our partners in the critical ecosystem partnership fund (cepf) signed several agreements for significant new support for this highly successful global program. to date, the program has provided grants to ci regional programs and more than 1,300 partners. together, these partners have pioneered new and diverse alliances, enabled more than 10 million hectares (24.7 million acres) of new protected areas and influenced policy in favor of people and nature in many countries. the new agreements are with the world bank ($20 million in new support from the global environment facility) and with the john d. and catherine t. macarthur foundation ($12 million in additional support). in fy08, ci’s special events raised $3.6 million. our trademark fundraising events in washington, d.c., los angeles and new york city got raves from those attending. we also expanded to new cities—jackson hole, wyoming and las vegas, nevada. nearly 2,000 guests learned about ci and global conservation issues. perhaps our most innovative event ever took place on september 20, 2007, in monaco: the “blue auction,” held in the historic musée oceanographique de monaco, cosponsored by the monaco-asia society under the patronage of hsh prince albert ii, and conducted by christie’s international. auctioned off for a total of more than $2 million were the naming rights to 10 species discovered by a ci survey in the bird’s head seascape, along with two non-species lots. on the public funding side, ci, in partnership with wwf and the nature conservancy, secured a five-year, $32 million grant from usaid for the coral triangle. (the grant will be split among the three organizations and others.) this is the largest single usaid investment in marine conservation. ci continued its record of successful corporate partnerships in fy08. in addition to starbucks and fiji water, the wrigley company foundation has committed to implement ci’s first initiative to weave conservation practices into the everyday lives of people around the world by working to inform the public about practical solutions to global and local conservation problems. ci’s online fundraising efforts took off in fy08, breaking the $1 million mark for the first time, and included launching the “lost there, felt here” campaign featuring ci board vice chair harrison ford. the generosity of our donors makes our work possible, and the success of the future for life campaign is due to our board of directors’ and chairman’s council members’ financial gifts, but also to their contributions of time and energy.