 an area of ocean the size of the moon might seem unmanageable—but with guidance from conservation international, 23 pacific island nations and territories have joined forces to care for the waters that millions of people depend on. this joint endeavor is called the pacific oceanscape, a framework for action inspired by kiribati’s president anote tong and created by pacific island leaders. fostering an integrated approach to ocean management that is grounded firmly in the culture and beliefs of pacific islanders, the pacific oceanscape has led to groundbreaking marine protected areas on a scale never before seen. spanning an area four times the size of the united states, this vast region is home to economically important waters, harboring the world’s largest remaining tuna stocks, providing more than 13,000 jobs to pacific islanders and contributing us$ 260 million to the region’s economy. but unsustainable and illegal fishing practices are taking their toll, robbing local fishermen of important income. rising sea levels caused by global climate change also threaten local communities, a vast majority of which lie within 100 kilometers (62 miles) of the coast. that’s where the pacific oceanscape comes in. although the 23 participants may be considered tiny island nations with modest terrestrial areas, they are in fact large ocean states. in fact, they oversee some 10 percent of the world’s total ocean surface—and they take seriously their responsibility to protect, manage and sustain the pacific’s cultural and natural integrity. perhaps no one more so than president tong—also a ci board member—who has gone farther than almost anyone to protect the planet’s most pristine waters for the global good. in 2006, tong partnered with ci and the new england aquarium to create the 384,289-square-kilometer (148,375-square-mile) phoenix islands protected area (pipa), safeguarding 550 species of reef fish and 200 species of coral, as well as giant clams, sea turtles, dolphins, whales, groupers and sharks—and above all, food security and livelihoods for his citizens.