 worked with local partners to restore a natural spring near the south african village of leliefontein by removing invasive poplar trees from a nearby wetland, resulting in the reclamation of 26,000 liters of water per day—a critical freshwater resource in the arid region. collaborated with local government authorities and partner shanshui to establish the pingwu water fund in china’s sichuan province. the fund compensates upstream communities for forest conservation that protects critical watersheds. developed a train-the-trainers course entitled “climate change and the role of forests” to increase knowledge in indigenous and local communities on issues related to climate change and activities that may impact their lands and livelihoods. the course is available in six languages, and has been conducted in seven countries. additional trainings have also taken place where attendees have led the course in their own communities. continued to manage a global portfolio of 20 forest carbon pilot projects that cover more than 700,000 hectares of forest. through reforestation and forest protection efforts, these projects will reduce emissions by an estimated 19.7 million tons over 30 years. awarded $1.47 million in “green” loans to six businesses in two countries through ci’s verde ventures—a lending program that invests in small- and medium-sized businesses that contribute to conserving earth’s biologically richest and most threatened areas. created, in partnership with local government authorities, the philippines’ largest locally established and first-ever “climate smart” marine protected area (mpa). the looc-lubang mpa was planned with ecological resilience in mind to buffer it from the impacts of climate change. this mpa is a capstone in the five years of investment in the sulu-sulawesi seascape which fostered a 242 percent increase in the total marine area under some form of protection, secured a 79 percent increase in total no-take zone area, and facilitated the development of governance and institutional mechanisms that are now leading examples of how to deliver marine conservation at scale.