 “ the forest of amazonia connects us all,” says kamanja panashekung. “it provides clean air for the world. it gives life to me — and to you.” panashekung’s people have lived in amazonia’s rainforests in suriname for 15 generations. but as things currently stand, amazonia as we know it could be unrecognizable to future generations. a swath of forests twice the size of london was lost in 2016 in the brazilian amazon alone. if this continues, humanity faces the irretrievable loss of one of the great harbors of biodiversity, fresh water and climate resilience. over 30 years, conservation international has protected 65 million hectares (160 million acres) in brazil, an area nearly the size of texas. this year, we took the next step, investing in an unprecedented partnership to bring back the amazon where it has been lost. together with the brazilian ministry of environment, the global environment facility (gef), the world bank, the brazilian biodiversity fund (funbio) and rock in rio’s environmental arm, “amazonia live,” conservation international made a landmark commitment in 2017 to create the largest tropical reforestation project in the world — one that will restore 73 million trees by 2023. the effort aims to bring down the price of restoration — a major tool for combating climate change worldwide — and will help brazil achieve its paris agreement target of reforesting 12 million hectares (more than 29 million acres) of land by 2030. the initiative fits with ci’s ambitious goal to achieve zero net deforestation in amazonia by 2020. by doing so, we can protect essential resources, mitigate climate change and increase prosperity for all people. most people will not be able to visit amazonia, but now everyone can experience the rainforest firsthand through the groundbreaking medium of virtual reality. to take people there, ci teamed up with the macarthur foundation, sc johnson and jaunt studios to create the virtualreality film “under the canopy.” in the film, panashekung explains his people’s connections to the forest — and the stakes for protecting it. “if you don’t know this place, you may see it as mysterious, filled with strange creatures,” he says. “you may see it as scary. but we see it differently. we see it as home. we care for the forest, protect it and tend to its needs — as it tends to ours.”