 for example, ci-bolivia supported the establishment of the largest municipal protected area in the region—“pampas del rio yacuma”—with 616,453 hectares (1.54 million acres) and provided technical assistance to the municipalities around madidi and pilon lajas protected areas (ixiamas and san buenaventura) to complete their municipal development plans. in peru, ci supported research, conservation and sustainable management activities in the rodal tahuamanu conservation concession, protecting it from agricultural and timber activities and providing key habitat for threatened species such as the goeldi’s monkey (callimico goeldii), the mahogany tree (swietenia macrophylla) and the harpy eagle (harpia harpyja). in cambodia, ci and its partners worked toward the protection of globally threatened species found only in the 402,000 hectares (993,000 acres) of central cardamoms protected forest, the largest contiguous track of evergreen forest in indochina. there, local communities are receiving incentives to improve their agricultural systems, health and education, while protecting the last known populations in the world of species such as the asian dragonfish (scleropages formosus) and the siamese crocodile (crocodylus siamensis). recently, the government of cambodia requested ci’s assistance to establish and manage the tonle sap freshwater sanctuary. this sanctuary contains approximately 270 fish species and many other freshwater species, including globally threatened otters, turtles, waterbirds and crocodiles, and represents the lifeblood for fisheries production of a large proportion of the cambodian population. in the philippines, ci supported the expansion and management of the penablanca protected landscape and seascape, home to thousands of animals and plant species, notably the critically endangered philippine eagle (pithecophaga jefferyi). the penablanca protected area represents today the largest block of forest under conservation management in the philippines and provides clean water for communities near and far. ci-guyana recently completed the boundary delineation for the proposed kanuku mountains protected area and submitted it to the government of guyana for approval. the process used for the delineation was groundbreaking and involved full participation from the 18 communities that live in and use the mountains, as well as government agencies and other stakeholders. the fi nal delineated area is 611,000 hectares (1.5 million acres) and is agreed to by all involved in the process. in fy08, ci and our partners helped create four new marine protected areas (mpas) in marine priority regions. the highlight of the year was the expansion of the phoenix islands protected area in kiribati to more than 41 million hectares (101.3 million acres), making it the largest mpa in the world and protecting both important shallow reefs and deep sea waters. in the eastern tropical pacific seascape, new mpas in fy08 included an important mangrove area protected in el morro, ecuador, and an artisanal fishing community marine area in tarcoles, costa rica. in brazil, the cassurubá marine extractive reserve became the latest mpa on abrolhos bank to provide benefits to local communities.