 typhoon haiyan entered history books as the most powerful and destructive storm to ever make landfall. it also shed light on the powerful role natural ecosystems can play in protecting vulnerable communities against such catastrophic events. churning across the philippines in november 2013— at times with winds gusting over 315 kilometers (196 miles) an hour and storm surges swelling more than five meters (16 feet) high—the storm left widespread devastation in its wake, including over 6,000 fatalities and thousands of razed homes. remarkably, amid some of the destruction stood intact buildings and unscathed families, protected, in part, by a natural barrier: mangroves. as buffers, mangroves can act as a first line of defense as they help absorb and dissipate the height and power of storm surges—and, in the case of typhoon haiyan, save lives. in the philippines’ verde island passage, conservation international has helped rehabilitate, protect and manage around 200 hectares (nearly 500 acres) of mangroves as part of an ecosystembased adaptation approach: the use of natural ecosystems to help coastal communities protect life and property and adapt to rising sea levels and stronger storms. for the 830,000 people who live in these areas and depend on natural resources, mangroves not only shelter shrimps, crabs and fish that provide food and jobs—they also serve as a natural buffer against extreme weather events. where typhoon haiyan passed through in the provinces of oriental mindoro and northern samar, villagers credit mangrove restoration with fewer casualties and less severe economic losses. “where proper mangrove rehabilitation and management work has been done, the mangroves served their purpose of coastal protection,” says enrique nunez, country executive director of ci’s philippines program. “the mangroves buffered against damage to local infrastructure and prevented potentially sizable losses of life.” in the small town of general macarthur (in eastern samar province), mangrove barriers— combined with well-executed evacuation plans—helped the death toll remain at zero, while the storm killed 64 people in the next town to the north. it’s impossible to know how many of the more than 6,000 deaths across the philippines could have been avoided if other areas had the same natural protective barriers. still, the significant impact mangrove rehabilitation had on survival rates is a stark reminder of the value of natural systems—and the role they can play in helping communities around the globe adapt to the long-term uncertainties of a changing climate. at the time of haiyan’s wrath, international leaders were gathered in warsaw to continue negotiations toward a global climate agreement. among the philippines delegation was nunez, who describes climate change as a “global challenge requiring a global solution.” “climate talks should serve as an opportunity to negotiate an ambitious deal to set the framework for a drastic reduction in emissions, along with action to adapt,” nunez wrote in a ci blog during the warsaw talks on behalf of his nation, ranked by the united nations as the third-most-at-risk to climate change in the world. while scientists are hesitant to directly link individual storms like typhoon haiyan to climate change, it’s clear that we are living in an age of adaptation. scientists predict current carbon dioxide emissions will warm the planet well beyond 2°c by 2100, and this warming could lead to physical changes, such as rising sea levels, increased sea surface temperature, severe droughts in some places while more rainfall in others, and stronger, more frequent storms. although nature-based measures like mangrove restoration are some of the most economical, sustainable and effective means available for addressing these risks, gaining global political and financial support is itself a challenge. “the full potential of meeting the needs of climate action—both mitigation and adaptation—cannot be realized without the inclusion of nature-based solutions,” explains shyla raghav, ci’s director of climate policy. “while at the global level what we need is large-scale transformation, it really will also require a lot of work at the local level to bring successful projects like our work in the philippines to scale.” one year after typhoon haiyan cast a shadow on the warsaw talks, a delegation of 20 ci scientists, researchers and analysts participated in the december 2014 lima negotiations to help build momentum for the 2015 conference in paris, where nations will come together to negotiate an agreement on climate with commitments on mitigation, adaptation and finance. “the decisions made this year will be critical to ensuring ecosystem-based adaptation becomes central to national and international strategies to protect ecosystems and vulnerable coastal communities from natural disasters and a changing climate,” raghav says. “while undoubtedly there will continue to be many challenges along the way, i remain hopeful that we will be able to channel the collaborative spirit we saw in lima into a strong outcome for our planet—and ourselves—in 2015.”