 for years, investing in the protection of nature has been the holy grail of conservation. with trillions in private capital available, how can we make nature’s value visible — and “investable” — for countries and companies? with conservation international (ci) ventures, we are cracking the code by providing financing to small businesses with big environmental solutions — and by forging partnerships with commercial players who want to invest in conservation. in the past year, ci ventures and our co-financing partners disbursed more than $9 million to four companies spanning different sectors and different geographies but facing a common challenge: they operate in globally significant conservation areas but are too small or early-stage to access commercial financing, effectively limiting their growth and financial sustainability. the recipients so far include: corpocampo, a family-owned company that sources açaí berries and hearts of palm in the colombian amazon. a loan from ci ventures will enable the company to upgrade its infrastructure and leverage larger investments from partners, creating an estimated 500 new full-time jobs. coopbam, a certified fair trade and organic coffee cooperative with more than 500 members in the peruvian amazon’s alto mayo protected forest, home to rare and threatened wildlife. the loan enabled payment to all coffee producers, building the cooperative’s credibility, while supporting anti-deforestation efforts and attracting more producers to join. • komaza, a kenyan “microforestry” business that employs thousands of marginalized farmers in sustainable tree farming to supply booming demand for charcoal, fuel and construction materials in africa. the financing supports the expansion of komaza’s model, which presents an environmentally responsible alternative to large-scale commercial tree farming. • jala, a woman-led tech start-up in indonesia that helps shrimp farmers increase harvests and improve sustainability and water quality, eliminating the need to cut down more mangrove forests to build new ponds. the loan will support commercial production of the company’s hardware and software solutions for smallholder shrimp farmers, who produce 75 percent of indonesia’s total annual shrimp production. over the next decade, ci ventures plans to execute 100 deals totaling $30 million — with an additional $200 million planned from co-financing and private-sector capital — resulting in improved management of nearly 500,000 hectares (1.2 million acres) of land and sea and the creation of 2,000 jobs.