 businesses need nature to thrive. this includes the roasters and farmers responsible for your daily cup of joe. but what happens when nature stops giving coffee what it needs? coffee is the most widely traded tropical agricultural product in the world, and demand for it continues to rise. yet nearly every major coffee-producing region of the world is feeling the impacts of climate change. rising temperatures, drought and changing weather patterns are causing these areas to become less suitable for growing the crop, pushing farmers to clear virgin forests elsewhere. meanwhile, the 120 million people who rely on coffee for their livelihoods — mostly smallscale farmers and farm workers — face an uncertain future. ci looks for opportunities to make sector-wide advances. to do this in coffee, ci launched the sustainable coffee challenge at the paris climate talks with the goal of making coffee the world’s first truly sustainable agricultural product. working with our longtime partner starbucks, we have helped chart a new way to produce coffee: one that is sustainable, transparent, and good for people and the planet. with the sustainable coffee challenge, ci is bringing together all levels of the coffee supply chain — from farmers, roasters and retailers to governments and civil society — to advance sustainability. since its launch, the challenge has grown to include the governments of rwanda and mexico as well as major retailers such as mcdonald’s, which plans to buy all of its coffee from sustainable sources by 2020. coffee is just one of the industries ci works with for the benefit of nature. through our center for environmental leadership in business, ci collaborates with industry leaders such as palm oil producers in brazil, mining companies in peru, fishermen in central america and energy developers in liberia — all to improve sustainable practices and safeguard nature. through our business & sustainability council, major companies representing us$ 2.2 trillion in revenue and 4 million employees have committed to pursuing sustainability by creating healthy ecosystems and strong communities. businesses around the world are seeing conservation of nature as crucial to their bottom lines. by supporting sustainable practices and building partnerships with these forward-thinking companies, ci is working to ensure that industries like coffee thrive for years to come.