 ci has emerged as a world leader in protecting the ocean environment and abundant marine species. ci’s seascapes program, generously supported by the walton family foundation and other donors, focuses on establishing large marine regions managed by partnerships of government authorities, private organizations and other stakeholders to conserve species and assist people who depend on ocean resources. by the end of fy07, ci’s collaboration with partners led to creation of 378,917 square kilometers of new marine protected areas in seven countries. overall, we work with partners in 46 marine protected areas covering more than 500,000 square kilometers—an area about the size of spain—around the world. ci, iucn and multiple partners launched the global marine species assessment—the first comprehensive review of the health of marine life. the marine management science program is similarly expanding research by working with more than 50 partners in brazil, belize, the eastern tropical pacific seascape and fiji. a major highlight was the discovery of new deep reefs off brazil that may equal all the previously known coral reefs in the south atlantic. in indonesia’s papuan bird’s head seascape, raja ampat was declared a maritime regency and a network of seven new mpas was created. this new network covers approximately 900,000 hectares and roughly 45 percent of the shallow-water coastal ecosystems of the raja ampat corridor. the global marine partnership fund, in collaboration with the harold k.l. castle foundation, launched an innovative pilot project to develop a marine management plan for the main hawaiian islands. in addition, ci sought partnerships with businesses in key industries to change harmful practices. wal-mart brought together ci and other environmental groups with industry groups to develop a program for all farmed shrimp sold by wal-mart and sam’s club to come from processors and farmers meeting accepted environmental, social and ethical standards. our goal is ocean governance at a scale that reverses the destructive practices imperiling much of marine life, and which ensures a healthy and productive ocean for the future.