 dear friends, since our beginning, in 1987, conservation international has worked with partners to protect more than 1.5 billion acres of the most critical landscapes and seascapes around the world — equivalent to two-thirds of the united states. it is an impact visible from space. and it has changed the trajectory of global conservation and positively impacted the lives of millions of people in over 30 countries. yet we need only to glance at the headlines to be reminded of how incomplete our work remains. in 2017, we saw historic storms in the united states and the caribbean, catastrophic wildfires in california, deadly flooding in west africa and southeast asia. ireland was hit with a hurricane, london with a dust storm. and as i write this, cape town, south africa, is on a fateful countdown to “zero water day,” when the city’s water taps will run dry. meanwhile, protections for some of our most cherished lands and waters are being chipped away, both in the u.s. and abroad. research by our scientists shows nearly 800 instances where protected areas and national parks were downgraded or delisted in recent years. we’ve seen shortsighted decisions on everything from the ivory trade to climate change. in my 30 years of leading conservation international, the need for our work has never been more critical than right now. despite all of this, i remain incredibly optimistic about the future, and i can see wonderful signs that we may be winning. never before have so many people from so many corners of our world come together to protect the planet. in the south pacific, island leaders are stepping up to establish vast marine protected areas. in colombia, president juan manuel santos has made protecting nature a signature focus in his country’s peace process. in africa, elephant numbers are showing signs of recovery, with a steep decline in poaching in hard-hit countries like kenya, and 13 countries have now signed on to the gaborone declaration for sustainability in africa — meaning that conservation and natural capital will be at the heart of their development plans moving forward. even as the u.s. ceded its leadership in the climate arena, civil society and businesses stepped up and said “we are still in.” china has moved faster to reduce carbon emissions and is integrating the concept of “eco-civilization” into a central tenet of the country’s growth. and global companies have stepped up to lead on these issues, seeing a new business imperative to act.