 “this place. our islands,” says ronald mambrasar to his eldest son, valen. “son, do you know we are blessed?” a native of west papua, indonesia, mambrasar began fighting for marine conservation when he saw the destruction of the coral reefs west papuans have depended on for generations. for the past 12 years, ci and our partners have worked with community leaders like mambrasar to protect an area known as the bird’s head seascape — the single greatest reservoir of marine life on the planet. local partners are patrolling for illegal fishing, monitoring the health of reefs and fisheries, and creating steady, well-paying jobs through tourism and sustainable fishing. as a result, the reefs are recovering and fish are returning — a remarkable success story for community-led conservation. now ci, working together with the walton family foundation, the global environment facility, wwf, the nature conservancy and the government of indonesia, is leading the creation of the blue abadi fund. the largest fund for a dedicated marine conservation area in the world, the blue abadi fund will support local management of this region in perpetuity. it is a powerful formula: by pairing local expertise with long-term financial stability, ci is able to achieve and maintain on-the-ground impact at scale. most people will never be able to visit the bird’s head to experience the exceptional results of this project. so to share this remarkable story, ci teamed up with the tiffany & co. foundation and the virtual reality studio here be dragons to create “valen’s reef,” a 360-degree immersive experience. building on the success of ci’s bold “nature is speaking” campaign, ci is able to reach and engage audiences as never before with this groundbreaking technology. ci’s work has had a critical impact on the region, but there’s still much to be done. “now the fish are returning and our community is thriving,” mambrasar says. “but i am scared because we still face many outside pressures. there is still more work to be done. i hope you will continue to protect our ocean.” watch “valen’s reef” at conservation.org/valensreef.