 we are in the midst of a crisis that is the greatest humanity has ever faced. the amazon is burning. the arctic is melting. and in a time when our assault on nature has given rise to deadly zoonotic diseases, one has become a catastrophic pandemic. but the young are raising their voices full of determination, resolve and rage. listen to them: if we do not take care of our planet, nothing else will really matter. dear friends, it is too late for quick wins and easy solutions. but we at conservation international are not about to slow down — we are dedicated to realizing the answers available in nature. our promise to you is simple: we will join forces with others to do all we can in our power, building on our competitive advantage, true to our values and mission, to jolt our planet onto a path that ensures that nature thrives — and thus we thrive. we are protecting and restoring nature — forests, mangroves, peatlands, grasslands — to tackle the climate crisis. we are massively increasing ocean conservation. we are demonstrating scalable models of sustainability in biologically critical land and seascapes. and all our work is guided by science and fueled by innovative finance. in response to the crisis in the amazon, conservation international launched a fund to support a multi-country forest protection pact led by the colombian government. we worked closely with the bolivian government to create the bajo madidi municipal conservation and management area, which permanently protects nearly 1.5 million hectares (3.7 million acres) of pristine forest, wetlands and savannas. we worked in the brazilian amazon to create jobs for rural and indigenous communities restoring degraded forests. we’re connecting cutting-edge technology with remote local communities to identify fires and real-time alerts. and we’re helping indigenous leaders secure more beneficial — and less environmentally damaging — agreements between their peoples and external interests, for the benefit of all. we continue to support groundbreaking policy. the west papua conservation province of indonesia offers a new global standard for valuing natural capital and sustainable development. and the tropical forest standard in california is a pioneering market mechanism that unlocks significant capital and reinforces the message that forests are more valuable alive than dead. we will continue innovating in finance. conservation international ventures launched first-round investments for growth-stage enterprises that benefit the communities most directly connected to nature. we will continue to develop and market high quality forest carbon projects, and thanks to partners such as apple, we are investing in new large-scale restoration projects. in the year ahead, conservation international, in partnership with others, is setting its sights on protecting an astonishing 18 million square kilometers (7 million square miles) of sea. to that end, we are in the process of launching a new fund — the largest private fund of its kind — to accelerate ocean conservation at a scale the world has never before seen. this past year, a personal milestone: my wife and i welcomed a daughter into the world. having a child is an expression of unmitigated hope. i am hopeful that this pivotal moment we are all struggling through will also be a grand unifying moment for humanity. i’m hopeful the natural world will inspire her as it has always inspired us. i’m hopeful we will leave her, and all of the world’s children, a livable, thriving planet — a planet we love and value.