 in the year since the relaunch, new visitors are up 20 percent, and our repeat traffic is up 67 percent. with the web site’s richer content and a more interactive experience to enjoy, our users are spending roughly five-and-a-half minutes on the site—almost a full minute longer than they did a year ago. ci has pushed hard to increase the number, and ensure the continuing quality, of our photographic and visual resources. in may 2008, ci expanded and formalized our partnership with the international league of conservation photographers, so that we may draw easily on the best photographers in the world. ci scientist timothy j. killeen’s report, a perfect storm in the amazon wilderness, was released as part of a coordinated effort to showcase the challenges facing protection of the amazon. a series of expeditions to the bird’s head seascape of indonesia led to the discovery of a new species of walking shark. our strategic marketing and global communications (sm+gc) division took our scientists’ good work and delivered a massive promotional campaign resulting in funds for the region and the designation of new protected areas by the indonesian government. as part of our vision to catalyze a new global conservation ethic and raise ci’s brand awareness among a general consumer audience, we created new corporate partnerships. led by ci’s center for environmental leadership in business, sm+gc formed marketing alliances with international corporations, including the following: • starbucks has renewed its relationship with ci to include marketing communications and leveraging ci’s brand to show its commitment to sustainable coffee production and the preservation of forests. • mcdonald’s is partnering with ci in new ways, including a panda happy meal, an endangered animal happy meal in europe and potential collaboration on the great turtle race in 2009. finally, we designed a multifaceted launch for ci’s climate change business strategy, called “lost there, felt here.” the campaign is designed to shift the debate and planning on global warming to increase awareness of the fact that 20 percent of the world’s greenhouse gases are released by the razing and burning of tropical forests. ci board of directors vice chair harrison ford served as spokesman for the campaign, which drove new traffic to our web site. visitors were able to “protect an acre” for $15, calculate their own carbon footprint and to navigate forests and climate issues around the world through an interactive map. of course, the aggressive outreach of ci communication and media staff, and the in-depth, in-country marketing knowledge of our international team expanded the scope of the “lost there, felt here” campaign immeasurably, and represents a new dimension for ci’s worldwide brand.