 dear friends, earlier this year i visited the sahtu nation, a dene first nations people who live in a vast region of canada’s northwest territories, an area larger than europe. after we spent a day fishing and hunting caribou, stocking up on supplies for the winter, we gathered around a roaring fire to hear the sahtu elders “tell story” — a beautiful ritual in which they relate dene legends and ancestral stories. here’s why i remain optimistic: because people everywhere still ask themselves how they can ensure their children’s lives will be better than their own — and because healthy nature will always be a part of the answer. as long as they ask that question, we will always have an opportunity to win their hearts and minds, and it’s our highest calling to seize that opportunity. thank you for your support of conservation international. together, we continue to tell — and write — the story of a sustainable planet. but when i asked the elders to tell story about the grizzly bear — an animal common in the sahtu region — they refused. “we don’t tell story about bears,” they explained. “we don’t talk about them. we don’t hunt them. we know that to live, we have to leave them alone, and they have to leave us alone.” i understood. i have found a similar wisdom and humility about humanity’s relationship with nature among so many indigenous peoples i have encountered in my travels. indigenous peoples have a shared understanding that every tree, rock, animal and person on earth is interconnected — and that for any to survive, all must be healthy and respected. so why is that understanding so scarce everywhere else? for me, this is the important “what if?” question of our age. we already have the technology and knowledge we need to protect the oceans, restore the forests, and use nature to address climate change decisively. what we need is a culture of sustainability and the values to support that culture. without these, no re-engineering of the planet — be it genetic or geo — will save us from ourselves. the harm we are doing to the earth will end up harming each of us, on a scale that will create enormous challenges for our species as well as deep conflict over dwindling resources. the good news: conservation international has never been in a better position to lead the charge. as you will read in these pages, the organization’s work in 2018 has driven a surge of momentum toward the global goal of a healthier planet. innovation in the service of values has always been in our dna. that is why our work has improved the lives of millions of people in more than 30 countries and has redefined conservation over and over. but today, our messages are resonating on a scale i couldn’t have imagined when i helped found the organization more than 30 years ago. i am inspired by my colleagues’ relentless commitment to transform our relationship with the natural world and to demonstrate across this planet that humanity will thrive when nature thrives. trying to shift today’s world toward a culture of sustainability might strike some as quixotic.