 it was a year of high notes for conservation international, including a string of successes— from the grass roots to the global stage—that confirmed our commitment to the protection of nature for the well-being of humanity. 2010 was a year of transformation. we moved beyond the launch of a new mission and began implementing a new strategy that supports human well-being by restoring and protecting ecosystems that provide essential goods and services. by working to safeguard those goods and services—and by becoming the trusted advisor to the communities and nations that rely on them—we will foster the development of healthy, sustainable economies that truly understand, value and benefit from the natural capital that underpins all societies. in addition to advancing historic international policy agreements, greening international supply chains, creating markets for ecosystem services and demonstrating the viability of healthy, sustainable economies, we also celebrated several milestones and new beginnings in 2010. ci opened offices in singapore and brussels to engage with governments and corporations in asia and europe, and conservation south africa was established as a ci affiliate. ci-madagascar and ci’s rapid assessment program both celebrated 20 years of positive, lasting impact, while the center for environmental leadership in business (celb) and the critical ecosystem partnership fund (cepf) marked 10-year anniversaries and impressive global impact. these milestones and the achievements on the pages that follow demonstrate the effectiveness of our endeavors at every level and affirm the solid foundation on which ci is built. we are moving forward with a challenging mission and a clear vision—eager to build on the conservation successes to date and take them to scale. as each passing year reveals more clearly, our well-being—our very future—is a shared one, because people need nature to thrive. our vision of a healthy blue planet supported by a sustainable, green development path has never been more important. and with supporters like you beside us, it has never been more within reach.