 with the international union for conservation of nature (iucn) species survival commission and other partners, cabs completed global-scale assessments of all mammals and made the databases available to the general public. the global mammal assessment found that nearly 50 percent of the world’s 390 primate species are in danger of extinction. in addition, the global amphibian assessment added more than 360 new species to the database. this effort also contributed to refinement of criteria and tools for the iucn red list process, which continues to play an influential role in understanding species extinction risks globally and in setting conservation priorities. research on biodiversity patterns is helping to better understand congruence with ecosystems services at multiple scales. as a result, ci scientists and partners are developing cutting-edge tools for multi-scale assessment of ecosystem services by multiple stakeholders, such as identifying landscape targets for biodiversity protection, safeguarding watersheds, sequestering carbon and enhancing habitat connectivity. this science-to-policy linkage was a key factor in securing buy-in from the inter- american development bank for the cabs publication titled a perfect storm in the amazon wilderness, which highlighted challenges and policy options for integrating biodiversity concerns into the initiative for integration of the regional infrastructure of south america. published in portuguese, spanish and english, “a perfect storm” proved that if south america develops in the wrong way, it risks destroying the region’s rainforests, destroying its rivers and altering regional weather patterns that are fundamental to the region’s long-term economic prosperity. ci scientists also made important contributions on climate change adaptation and mitigation, including major inputs to the 13th conference of parties of the u.n. framework convention on climate change held in bali, indonesia. this included an analysis of vulnerability of the world’s protected areas to climate change, which highlighted the need for anticipating predicted impacts in designing national systems. in this regard, cabs research on species extinction risks and vulnerability of habitats and ecosystem functions (hydrology and carbon storage) was an important contribution to the development of madagascar’s national climate change adaptation strategy. on climate change mitigation, cabs supported capacity building on the application of cutting-edge remote sensing and mapping tools for assessment of carbon baselines to help implement projects that retain standing forests. cabs also moved forward with ci’s flagship tropical ecosystem assessment and monitoring (team) partnership, which is establishing a global network of field stations to generate near real-time data for long-term monitoring of tropical biodiversity. online data became fully operational, and the new protocol for landscape-scale monitoring was launched. on the policy front, cabs joined forces with ci’s center for conservation and government to contribute analytical research on ecosystem service values to an ongoing global assessment by the european union on the economic cost of biodiversity loss.