 conservation international is continually learning, evolving and pushing boundaries. here are a few of the major projects we will be working on in the coming year. protecting new ground since our founding nearly 30 years ago, ci has helped to protect more than 730 million hectares of the planet’s most important land, marine and coastal areas. we continue to build on that number, including the forthcoming establishment of 3.5 million hectares of new protected areas in colombia’s national system of protected areas. next-generation accounting ci is guiding governments to account for their natural resources and factor them into development decisions. the government of peru has committed to build on ci’s regional work by expanding ecosystem accounting and scaling up to the national level. more broadly, ci helped develop the natural capital protocol, a framework to help companies incorporate their impacts on natural capital into decision-making. fifty companies are piloting the protocol, which is scheduled for its global launch in 2016. funding the future long-term conservation requires funding, and so to protect indonesia’s bird’s head seascape, in 2015 ci launched the blue abadi fund. the fund’s name — “abadi” means “forever” in indonesian — signals the goal of securing the vitality of the seascape and the community in perpetuity. early financial support from the government of indonesia has set a promising course, but more funding will be needed to protect this singular reservoir of tropical marine species in perpetuity. engaging new audiences millions around the world have already been inspired by our “nature is speaking” film series. from new york to paris, rio to hong kong, and cape town to bali, people are learning that conservation is not about saving nature — it’s about saving ourselves. looking forward, we’ll tap new technologies, like virtual reality, to bring the “nature is speaking” message to more communities and provide immersive experiences into the exceptional beauty and very real challenges of global conservation. this is a moment of opportunity and momentum. with generous supporters by our side, ci is emboldened to protect our planet for the future of us all.