 many governments have announced major commitments to help reduce tropical deforestation. ci’s center for conservation and government (ccg) mapped out the pledges announcing funding to combat climate change by both countries and multilaterals. almost all funds that have been announced are intended to be channeled through multilaterals, and ccg’s public funding department has been working across the organization to promote the diverse set of financial mechanisms that it has to offer to multilaterals and bilaterals to achieve results on a significant scale. among the many commitments, a few stood out: the world bank launched its forest carbon partnership facility, totaling $160 million usd in commitments; norway announced a deforestation fund on the order of $560 million usd per year; the united kingdom announced the $1.2 billion usd environmental transformation fund; and germany announced $780 million usd over the next five years. ci is well positioned to partner with governments and funding agencies on these new deforestation initiatives, and ccg has been working steadily over the past year to expand the dialogue. a number of high-level meetings took place in europe with the governments of germany, france, norway, the united kingdom and in japan. ci’s vision on priority areas for investment based on sound science provides an excellent base for discussion and helps governments set priorities. ci recognizes the excellent global leadership of these governments in making bold commitments to biodiversity conservation and climate change. in addition, ccg continues to work with the world bank on developing the forest carbon partnership fund and other climate funds, and to ensure that several key high-biodiversity countries are able to participate and benefit accordingly. on the u.s. government side, there has been much activity in our work on capitol hill. after a coalition including ci spent a year opposing proposed cuts of up to 50 percent in usaid’s international budget for biodiversity conservation, the house and senate both produced the highest budget recommendations ever for these programs: $175 million and $195 million, respectively. this led to a reversal in the bush administration’s plans to significantly reduce or close conservation and natural resource management programs in some of the world’s countries richest in biodiversity, such as madagascar, mexico and brazil. we also managed to intervene with key congressional offices to block last-minute amendments in both the house and senate to reduce or eliminate 2008 funding for the global environment facility. u.s. government support for the coral triangle initiative (cti) gained considerable momentum in the past months and now includes a financial commitment of approximately $32 million over the next five years. the cti is an effort to promote planning and support for large-scale marine conservation in the world’s most biodiverse marine region. with important support from wwf, the nature conservancy and ci, the cti is being led by six country governments: indonesia, the philippines, malaysia, papua new guinea, timor leste and the solomon islands.