 in september 2007, with the help of ci, the wai wai people of konashen district in guyana created the nation’s first community owned conservation area. under regulations passed by the guyana parliament, the wai wai community formally designated their land a protected area and adopted a management plan, developed with technical and financial support from ci, for the 625,000-hectare (1.5 million-acre) tract on the northern border of brazil’s pará state. april 2008 saw the launching of a book titled coming together in a land of riches, power and life-giving forces. the book focuses on the bi-national peace park process between peru and ecuador with ci and other partners. a group of 127 contributors—86 percent of them indigenous—documented the project. also in april, the indigenous people and climate change workshop at the u.n. permanent forum on indigenous issues was held, bringing together more than 120 participants from around the world to focus on building awareness and strategies for mitigation and adaptation to climate change for indigenous peoples. ci-brazil continues to work with the kayapó people of southeastern brazil to protect their 11-million-hectare (25-million-acre) homeland. located in the brazilian amazon’s most deforested sector, the kayapó lands form the largest single protected tract of tropical forest in the world. ci provides training and equipment to facilitate border surveillance, along with support for small businesses that provide income while conserving the forests. using a novel approach to make conservation attractive to local people, ci has implemented conservation agreements to protect more than 20,000 square kilometers (7,700 square miles) by engaging with and benefiting 100 indigenous communities, local groups and private landowners in 17 countries around the world. conservation agreements have increased school attendance in communities in cambodia by 25 percent, provided wages for conservation jobs such as patrolling and reforestation to more than a dozen communities in 10 countries, offered more than 100 scholarships to children in the solomon islands, helped rebuild communities devastated by the sichuan earthquake in china and improved the respiratory health of more than 200 families in the highlands of peru by reducing fuel wood consumption and supplying energy-efficient stoves. conservation agreements are attractive to the donor community, as endowments have been secured for the sovi basin in fiji and tetepare in the solomon islands, through the support of fiji water and ausaid, respectively. working with government agencies and landowners in fiji, ci has helped pilot a conservation approach in which landowners have cancelled a timber concession in sovi basin—the largest remaining area of intact forest in the country—and created a protected area instead. approximately 4,000 people in six villages now receive support for socioeconomic development, including a student scholarship program. recognizing the importance of the project, fiji water has granted $2.25 million in endowment funds to provide support in perpetuity.