 ci helped leading brands create company-wide environmental strategies and launch groundbreaking initiatives to tackle climate change and biodiversity loss. these efforts are led by ci’s center for environmental leadership in business (celb) and involve all of ci’s field and headquarters divisions. a new phase in ci’s decade-long partnership with starbucks coffee company takes conservation beyond coffee farms into surrounding landscapes to address climate change. a five-year commitment begins with an initial investment of $7.5 million, most of which will support projects in mexico and indonesia. we will help coffee growers apply good conservation practices on their farms and protect surrounding forests. preserving forests keeps co2 on the ground, so we will help coffee farmers become carbon farmers and earn income by reducing emissions. the forests provide water, prevent erosion and help buffer the coffee farms from droughts, hurricanes and other impacts of climate change. starbucks also nearly doubled its investment in ci’s verde ventures fund, which provides financing to coffee growers in el salvador, guatemala, mexico, peru and indonesia. marriott international announced a new company-wide commitment to the environment, developed with ci. marriott will lead the hotel industry in reducing co2 emissions through energy efficiency, a commitment to green buildings and incentives to green its $10 billion supply chain. to offset remaining co2 emissions, marriott will fund the protection of 405,000 hectares (1.4 million acres) of rainforest in the brazilian state of amazonas—one of the fi rst examples of a company taking steps toward becoming carbon neutral by helping preserve forests. marriott is inviting its customers and suppliers to join the program. fiji water worked with ci to go beyond carbon neutral, making a commitment to reduce and offset 120 percent of the annual greenhouse gas emissions generated by its product life cycle. ci has a longstanding commitment to the nation of fiji, where we have worked for more than a decade to help landowners find economic alternatives to logging. ci advised fiji water on its carbon footprint and recommended adoption of a portfolio of actions, including energy efficiency, reduction in packaging, investment in renewable sources of energy and high-quality forest carbon investments. ci and fiji water began by helping protect more than 20,000 hectares (50,000 acres) in fiji’s sovi basin—the co2 saved is equivalent to keeping two million cars off the road for a year. in consultation with ci, wal-mart stores inc. launched love, earth® jewelry, which allows customers to trace the path of their jewelry purchases from mine to market. ci and wal-mart worked with jewelry manufacturers and mining companies to develop environmental and social standards. love, earth® customers can go online and trace the gold, silver and diamonds in their jewelry to mines or recycled sources that conform to the standards. as the world’s biggest jewelry retailer, wal-mart’s program will help to reduce the environmental and social impact of mining worldwide. wal-mart underscored its commitment to sustainability by working with ci and the brazilian state of amapa to fund the amapa national forest, which provides fresh water to 500,000 people, prevents co2 emissions and preserves the amazon’s biodiversity.