 the nations of the world made history in 2016, when the paris climate pact, negotiated by 195 nations, entered into force years earlier than expected. countries from india to japan have now formally adopted the agreement, crossing the threshold of 55% of global emissions needed for it to take effect. for the first time, developed and developing countries alike committed to reducing carbon pollution. “by publicly announcing strong commitments early, china and the united states—the two biggest emitters—inspired others to step up,” says gwen ruta, senior vp for climate and energy. “in the aftermath of the u.s. election, edf will work to ensure that the paris accord continues to move forward.” hundreds of the world’s largest companies have committed to help transition to a low-carbon economy. that leadership will be essential as we protect the paris agreement and basic environmental laws. in china, our work on pilot carbon-trading programs helped give beijing the confidence to commit to launching a national carbontrading program in 2017. and in the united states, we helped replace obsolete rules with new policies at the federal and state level that reward innovative ways of reducing pollution. the paris agreement aims to keep the rise in global temperatures well below 3.6°f. (2°c.)— beyond which the risks increase significantly— and to pursue efforts to limit the rise to 2.7°f. with our partners, edf has identified a set of actions in key countries and sectors that will be enough to turn the corner on climate by 2020, so that emissions of both long-lived and short-lived climate pollutants stop going up and start coming down. we advocated the use of markets within the paris framework as the most efficient way to reduce pollution by harnessing private sector innovation. so far, 92 countries have expressed interest in using markets to meet emission reduction targets. the paris agreement includes provisions backed by edf ensuring that emissions reductions will be measured, reported and verified—crucial rules of the road for thriving markets. “now we need to translate political will into implementation,” says dr. nathaniel keohane, edf’s vp for global climate. in europe and the united states, edf has also introduced new standards to boost investor confidence in financing energy efficiency.