 at environmental defense fund, we recognize that our work requires perseverance and long-term commitment. the important advances won for the environment in 2014 resulted from the sustained efforts of edf and others over many years—and we will need to remain vigilant to defend and build upon these gains in the years ahead. since the 1990s, edf has relied on a series of five-year strategic plans to map out efforts on the scale needed to protect climate, oceans, ecosystems and health. this is the final year of one such plan and the gateway to the next. our vision for 2015–2019 is captured in blueprint 2020, a document you can find at edf.org/ blueprint2020. taking stock, we are pleased to report that we are on track to attain many of the goals established in our previous plan in 2009, though not always in the way we had expected. it’s not so easy to see five years down the road. climate in our 2009 plan, we aimed to help put the u.s. on a path to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 17% by 2020 (compared to 2005). today the country is on this path—but not by means of the legislation edf had advocated. that bill passed the house in 2009 but stalled out in the senate. we then looked for other ways to achieve the same goal. our 2020 target for u.s. emissions is still within reach, partly due to low natural gas prices but also thanks to advances including vehicle mileage standards, state-level actions and epa’s proposed clean power plan—solutions that edf and our allies helped move forward. we still need bigger cuts, so edf has launched a clean energy program that is dedicated to clearing away the regulatory and market obstacles that slow the transition to renewable energy. on the global climate front, we have faced a persistent lack of progress toward an international agreement, one of our 2009 aims. dramatic advances in a few large-emitting countries can help break the logjam. already we are heartened by some bright spots, including china’s launch of seven pilot carbon trading programs to address climate pollution and brazil’s success in reducing its amazon deforestation rate by 70% in the past decade. building on this progress, blueprint 2020 lays out a series of actions in several key countries that can reverse the rise of global greenhouse gas emissions within five years—which would be a remarkable reversal of the two-century-long trend of increasing emissions. oceans in an effort to reduce the problem of overfishing, our 2009 plan aimed to bring 50% of u.s. federal fisheries into a powerful management program called catch shares by the end of 2014. we have exceeded that goal, having already reached the 65% mark. many fish populations are rebounding— gulf of mexico red snapper, one of our earliest catch share successes, has tripled in abundance. far fewer fish are being wasted than under the old rules—80% less in the pacific groundfish fishery—and fishermen are better off. no wonder edf was invited to work with fishermen and nonprofits in eight other countries to help adapt these methods to different cultures, laws and fishery conditions. this puts us well ahead of our 2009 goal to help bring catch shares to three more countries by 2014. buoyed by this success, we have set a goal in blueprint 2020 to help bring sustainable fishing to one-third of the world’s catch by 2020. ecosystems we have achieved many local successes on working lands since 2009. for example, we engaged farmers across the midwest in cutting excess fertilizer that pollutes air and water, and we pioneered an exchange program where ranchers are paid to protect more wildlife habitat than is lost to development on lands nearby. we were frustrated, however, by the difficulty of scaling up these local approaches to the level needed. so in blueprint 2020, we will expand our work with corporate partners and economic incentives to accelerate these solutions. for example, companies like campbell’s soup and general mills will work with their suppliers to reduce excess use of fertilizer.