 with the trump administration shifting into reverse gear on federal climate action, edf has helped california, illinois and other states take the lead on climate, sending a strong signal to the nation and the world. the california legislature voted in july 2017 to extend the state’s cap-and-trade program, which had been set to end in 2020. the declining cap guarantees emissions reductions and is a central component of the state’s bold plan to reduce planet-warming emissions 40% below 1990 levels by 2030. edf has been working with california leaders for more than a decade. in 2006, we cosponsored the landmark global warming solutions act, which set an economy-wide limit on greenhouse gas emissions, spurring innovation. the renewed commitment, along with a companion bill to address local pollution, passed by a two-thirds majority in the state legislature, enough to avoid legal challenges. “this success demonstrates it is possible to strike a balance between environmental, economic and health concerns while ensuring equity for communities disproportionately impacted by pollution,” says the bill’s sponsor, assemblyman eduardo garcia. “we have created a model for the world, and edf was an instrumental partner.” at least 35% of the proceeds from capand- trade will finance programs such as transportation and renewable energy in disadvantaged and low-income areas. the golden state has proven that the excuse so often given for doing nothing on climate change—that climate action slows economic growth—is simply false. as it reduced emissions, the state grew its economy, adding jobs almost four times faster than the national average. california is charting a path that other states, many of them under republican leadership, are now following. in illinois, edf helped win passage of an ambitious bipartisan bill that will reduce power plant carbon emissions by more than half by 2030, while generating $15 billion of investment in wind and solar. meanwhile, the nine northeastern states that are part of a regional cap-and trade program called rggi have reduced carbon from power plants by 40% since 2008, and will cut 30% more by 2030. “climate action has its own momentum,” says quentin foster, edf’s california climate director. “the administration can throw sand in the gears, but it can’t stop climate action. states, cities and businesses are all stepping up.”