 for 127 million americans, a trip to walmart is a weekly household ritual. in 2013, the retailer unveiled a new policy, which edf helped develop, to begin phasing out some potentially harmful ingredients found in everyday products such as shampoo, baby lotion, cosmetics and air fresheners, and replace them with safer ingredients. it was the first major retailer to do so. “consumers are demanding safer products,” says dr. sarah vogel, edf’s health program director. “scientific research points to serious health risks of chemical exposures, including cancer, diabetes and infertility.” in 2007, edf opened an office in bentonville, ark., near walmart’s corporate headquarters, to help the retailer lessen its environmental footprint. “the very first conversation we had was about chemicals,” says michelle harvey, our senior manager there. two years later, walmart began using a software screening program, developed with help from edf, to assess the chemical ingredients of personal care products, household cleaners and other formulated products. the software, called greenwercs, revealed disturbing news: almost 40% of formulated products on walmart shelves contain chemicals that may pose health risks. because of its extraordinary size and purchasing power, walmart has a unique capacity to influence its suppliers. its decisions have industry-wide implications. learning of these findings, walmart took action. “our goal is to sell products that sustain people and the environment,” says andrea thomas, walmart’s senior vp of sustainability. “edf was instrumental in assisting us with a rigorous yet achievable policy to further our goal and help ensure the products on our shelves are affordable and sustainable.” walmart’s new policy initially targets about ten chemicals commonly found in consumer products for replacement with safer ingredients. by 2015, it will require suppliers to disclose all product ingredients online. the company also plans to take its private label products through a more stringent screening process. to safeguard our integrity and objectivity, edf accepts no funding from walmart or any other corporate partner. “we’ve learned through experience that you can create environmental progress by leveraging corporate purchasing power,” says elizabeth sturcken, edf managing director for corporate partnerships. “and who has more purchasing power than walmart?” walmart’s action is sure to have a ripple effect across the entire supply chain. “when companies like this make a shift, it’s huge,” says judi shils, executive director of teens turning green, a nonprofit that promotes environmentally conscious choices for young adults. “you’re influencing middle america.” these changes won’t happen overnight, but they represent a major step forward. edf will closely monitor and verify the reduction of hazardous chemicals until the promise of healthier products becomes a reality. “ultimately,” says sturcken, “walmart’s policy will be evaluated on results.”