 the road to stabilizing the world’s climate leads through china, which is the world’s largest greenhouse gas emitter, burning as much coal annually as all other countries combined. after years of growth, a rising middle class is calling for a shift to clean, sustainable development. edf is engaged at every level to help beijing deliver. in 2014, president xi jinping joined president obama in making historic commitments to curb climate pollution. china promised to peak its carbon emissions by 2030 and expand the use of alternatives to fossil fuels to at least one-fifth of the nation’s energy mix. in 2015, china pledged to launch a national cap-and-trade program for carbon by 2017, based on a set of seven pilot programs that edf helped develop. twenty-five years ago, beijing called on dr. daniel dudek, now edf vp for asia, to participate in the country’s first pilot projects with economic incentives for pollution control. most recently, edf provided technical assistance as china launched carbon-trading programs in five cities and two provinces, home to 250 million people. edf’s goal is to help china develop infrastructure, policies and regulations needed to shift the country’s economy as quickly as possible toward a low-carbon future. china’s environmental transformation is being implemented by a new generation of enforcement officers, many trained through a program edf set up with peking university. so far, 29,000 professionals, more than one-third of enforcement officers nationwide, have graduated from our program and fanned out across the country to enforce compliance with environmental laws. since much of china’s pollution comes from factories that export goods, we also began a green supply chain initiative, endorsed by the 21-member asia-pacific economic conference, that uses the purchasing power of the government and multinationals to improve energy efficiency and cut carbon pollution. “by finding these leverage points, we can rapidly scale change,” says dudek.