 breakthroughs may seem sudden, but they’re usually a long time coming—and they never happen by chance. they come from strategy and perseverance. take china’s historic announcement last fall that the country will launch a national cap-and-trade program by 2017 to cut carbon pollution. it felt like a sudden breath of fresh air and—together with the u.s. clean power plan and commitments made by many other countries—inspired a new era of climate ambition in paris. but the story began 25 years ago, when edf economist dr. daniel dudek, who had already helped design the u.s. cap-andtrade program for acid rain, was invited to china to advise officials on creating market-based environmental protection. dudek, now our vp for asia, ended up making more than 150 trips to china and offering key technical assistance on the seven carbon-trading pilot programs that gave the chinese the confidence they needed to take the idea nationwide. patient work led to a dramatic breakthrough. another big breakthrough happened on december 17, when the u.s. senate passed a bipartisan bill to ensure the safety of chemicals in consumer products—the first such reform in 40 years. once reconciled with the house version and signed by the president, this will mark the culmination of two decades of work by edf scientist dr. richard denison, a leading expert on chemical safety. breakthroughs need a strong foundation. for ecosystems, we listened to concerns of private landowners and launched edf habitat exchanges, which protect wildlife through cooperation rather than conflict with landowners. this year, exchanges became the centerpiece of an effort to protect the greater sage grouse. and for oceans, our strategy to restore fisheries by giving fishermen a greater stake in ocean recovery—which helped triple red snapper in the gulf of mexico— is now established on the u.s. west coast and starting to take hold in mexico and belize. new research by edf and our allies shows how, by giving fishermen secure fishing rights, we can have more fish in the sea and more seafood on the plate. the tenacity needed to achieve such breakthroughs would never be possible without edf’s dedicated staff and the generous donors who have backed our work for nearly 50 years. thank you.