 president obama made history on august 3, 2015, when he unveiled epa’s clean power plan, the first-ever national standards to cut climate pollution from new and existing power plants. the plan sent a clear signal to the world that the united states is serious about climate change. edf had been working toward this moment for years, alongside allies like the american lung association and the natural resources defense council. the plan requires that the nation’s 1,000 fossil fuel power plants—which cause roughly a third of u.s. greenhouse gas emissions—cut their emissions 32% below 2005 levels by 2030. edf members submitted 481,000 public comments. epa estimates that by 2030 the clean power plan will cut about $8 a month from the average residential utility bill and create tens of thousands of jobs. “states are in the driver’s seat,” says edf general counsel vickie patton. epa has given states the flexibility to deploy solutions that reflect local priorities while minimizing costs. many states and power companies have indicated they can meet the standards and are already making clean energy investments. the fight is far from over. twenty-seven states have filed lawsuits, and there are ongoing attempts in congress to derail the plan. “we’re in for a political fistfight,” says jeremy symons, associate vp for climate policy, “but we have the public on our side.” edf is committed to supporting and defending the plan—in the courts and in outreach to policy makers and the public. epa’s authority to act was established in a series of court cases in which edf played a key role, including at the u.s. supreme court. “the rhetoric is out there that the clean power plan is bad for business,” says mark buckley, vp for environmental affairs at staples, “but that is absolutely not the case.” staples is one of 365 companies to send a letter to governors requesting finalization of state plans. among its many benefits, the plan is accelerating an energy revolution that’s underway but needs to go faster. that’s why our clean energy team is working in key states such as illinois, pennsylvania and texas, and with power companies like xcel energy. we’re unleashing markets for clean technology by eliminating rules that favor outmoded dirty energy and replacing them with ones that foster a modern, efficient grid. with the clean power plan and investments in clean energy, the era of unlimited carbon pollution from u.s. power plants is finally coming to an end.