 since our founding by a small group of scientists in 1967, environmental defense fund has been dedicated to building a world where people and nature prosper together. scientific rigor and economic insights shape our solutions; partnerships and coalitions help refine and turn them into action. working in 26 countries today, edf’s 750 scientists, economists, attorneys and other associates — and our partners and allies around the world — bring unique perspectives to the quest. the combined power of these diverse perspectives creates new energy and new solutions. even in the best of times, it’s hard work winning lasting progress in washington, d.c., and few would call this the best of times. the trump administration is trying to roll back national environmental safeguards, and edf and its allies are fighting that constant assault in court (see p. 6). yet even now, we’re making breakthrough progress in u.s. cities and states — and elsewhere around the globe — thanks to a broad range of partners with varied perspectives. for example, to reduce air pollution and fund mass transit in new york city, we helped pass landmark congestion pricing legislation (see p.19). we did that by building a powerful coalition with more than 150 allies, including leaders in environmental justice, real estate and finance. cutting climate pollution and putting the world on a rapid path toward a 100% clean economy is our most urgent assignment. achieving that goal, however, can’t stop the serious climate impacts that are already baked in from past pollution. so, even as we work to drive down emissions, we’re also working to boost climate resilience — helping communities and ecosystems thrive, despite the changes that are inevitable. you’ll find examples throughout this report, along with some of the stories of edf partners who are helping get the work done. thanks to our supporters who understand the power of strong science, we’re able to invest in studies that answer difficult, timely questions, such as how much methane pollution is being emitted from the global oil and gas supply chain and what are the best ways to reduce it. answering such questions leads us to champion technological innovations that match the scale of the problems. among the most ambitious examples is methanesat, a powerful methane-detection satellite set to launch in 2022, which will usher in a new era of accountability for those who are putting methane pollution into the sky (see p.12). edf builds durable solutions that stand the test of time and the ebb and flow of politics. in the united states, we strengthen bipartisan support for the environment. and the world over, we build equitable, cost-effective solutions by listening to the people most affected and aligning incentives so that businesses can efficiently cut more pollution per dollar. the combined perspectives of stakeholders, science, innovation and economics fuel the lasting progress for which edf is known.