 scientists, after years of research, have concluded there is no safe level of lead in the human body. so what’s lead doing in baby food? that’s the question raised by a widely reported 2017 edf study that found 20% of baby food samples—including fruit juices, cookies and root vegetables such as carrots—had detectable levels of lead. “every child’s food should come unleaded,” says dr. sarah vogel, edf vice president for health. “the pervasive presence of lead in food is poorly understood and concerning.” edf’s report reviewed federal data and estimated that more than one million children consume lead in excess of u.s. food and drug administration (fda) limits for food. the data also showed lead was more commonly found in baby food than in food intended for adults. it is unclear where the lead is coming from and why it may be more prevalent in baby food. what we do know is that lead is a potent neurotoxin, and children are especially vulnerable to it. lead exposure can result in lower iq, memory problems, possible hearing loss and behavioral problems, including hyperactivity. parents can take action by asking baby food companies whether they regularly test their food for lead. they can also consult their pediatricians for advice on how to reduce lead exposure. edf is pressing manufacturers and the fda to pinpoint the source of the contamination and fix the problem. we have filed a freedom of information act request to pry loose more data from the fda. and we also helped develop legislation in the u.s. senate that would strengthen lead limits in baby food. the edf report, based on a decade’s worth of fda data, resulted in a flood of press coverage, including news reports on more than 100 television stations. drinking water is another worrisome avenue for lead exposure, and edf is involved here, too. in 2015, the nation learned about the public health crisis in flint, mi, when high levels of lead were found in drinking water because of lead service pipes. what most people don’t know, however, is that some six million homes across america are also at risk because they get drinking water through lead service pipes. edf is working with communities around the country to find the most efficient ways to remove lead service pipes. we’re also testing drinking water for lead in at-risk child care centers nationwide.