 in politically polarized washington, epa’s clean power plan came under withering attack from congressional opponents in 2015—and our political advocacy partner edf action responded with a vigorous defense. the clean power plan will cut power plants’ carbon dioxide emissions nearly one-third below 2005 levels by 2030, but it is fiercely resisted by some in congress, who introduced at least ten pieces of legislation in 2015 to block the landmark program. our opponents’ failure to stop the plan is a tribute to the effectiveness of edf action and its allies, who have worked tirelessly behind the scenes for clean air and a stable climate. “the plan marks the onset of a clean energy revolution in the united states, which is exactly why some in congress are trying so hard to block it,” says elizabeth thompson, president of edf action. “while the rest of the country is moving forward, they remain stuck in the past.” edf action designed a campaign of radio, tv and internet advertising to sway members of congress in key states. we mobilized moms clean air force, whose members reached out to their representatives in congress, urging them to block opposition to the plan. edf’s strategic partners, our network of influential supporters, lobbied 43 members of congress in one-on-one meetings. our allies were similarly effective and, as a result, moves to derail the plan have stalled. because edf action raises funds that are not tax deductible, it is free to do things edf cannot, including unlimited lobbying of congress. in a divided government, environmental progress requires engaging with both republicans and democrats. “on capitol hill as well as in the states, we work both sides of the aisle to advance environmental progress,” says thompson. “that means fighting for good bills and against bills taking us in the wrong direction.” an important part of our climate strategy is to involve people who care deeply about climate but don’t always vote. edf’s defend our future campaign engages millennials who pledge to persuade candidates to support climate action. having recruited 100,000 young people in key states in 2014, defend our future is now working to sign up millennials nationwide.