 with the success of catch shares in u.s. waters, edf scientists have been asked to advise on fishery management in other countries around the world. similar approaches can work for large commercial fisheries in europe and elsewhere, as well as for small-scale fisheries within a few miles of shore. nearly half the wild fish people eat are caught in small-scale fisheries, many of which are poorly managed or have no rules at all. working with local fishermen and governments, edf is using science to show how sustainable management can turn the tide. in belize, the mesoamerican reef—the largest barrier reef in the western hemisphere —supports more than 500 species of fish, but overfishing is taking a toll. edf teamed up with the wildlife conservation society and local partners to enlist fishermen and policy makers to help protect this extraordinary reef. the government authorized two fishing-rights pilot projects in 2011. under the programs, local fishermen have secure rights to fish in a designated area. in exchange, they help crack down on illegal fishing, a major problem. after four years, fish populations are rebounding and illegal fishing has dropped 60%. that success led the government of belize to ask for edf’s help rolling out the system nationwide. in 2015, the national cabinet approved the plan. edf fishing rights programs are also beginning to take hold in mexico’s gulf of california, where we are helping restore the curvina fishery by reducing the total catch, boosting profits and ensuring the long-term health of the species. to augment incomes, edf helped create the gulf’s first women-run fishing cooperative. “edf’s approach has the flexibility needed to adapt to varying cultural and legal circumstances,” says dr. laura rodriguez, oceans director for edf de méxico. now the idea is catching on. edf has been invited to help with reforms in asian states that produce nearly 20% of the world’s seafood: indonesia, japan, myanmar, the philippines and the pacific island states that together control the word’s largest tuna fishery.