 as waters warm, fish are on the move. this creates conflicts over fishing grounds and can increase overfishing, but edf is helping countries find sustainable solutions. the humboldt current, off the coast of ecuador, peru and chile, is one of the world’s most productive ocean ecosystems. cold, nutrient-rich waters from the south intersect with warm tropical currents, supporting an extraordinary variety of marine mammals and close to 15% of the global fish catch. climate change and overfishing are upsetting the balance, driving some species toward the poles and allowing others, such as humboldt squid, to proliferate. the changes ripple through the fishing sector, from industrial anchovy fleets to more than 180,000 small-scale artisanal fishermen who rely on a wide range of fish for their livelihoods. warming waters are disrupting fisheries from iceland to indonesia, sparking conflicts over fishing grounds and creating new pressures to fish at an unsustainable rate. “what’s happening in the humboldt current region is emblematic,” says erica cunningham, edf’s south america oceans director. as more marine species cross borders, countries need to work together on fisheries management. in 2018, edf brought together fishery leaders from chile, ecuador and peru for a meeting in our washington, d.c., office. in 2019, they agreed on a tri-national scientific vision to create the region’s first comprehensive system for shared observation, prediction and warning of climate impacts. “this is the new frontier,” says merrick burden, resilient fisheries director at edf. “the goal is to build a scientific foundation to help fisheries adapt to climate change in the humboldt current.” chilean fisherman jose chaura is hopeful. “we face a lot of uncertainty,” he says, “but having flexibility to catch different species as circumstances change will allow us to fish sustainably and maintain our livelihoods.” belize is one country where edf-backed reforms, coupling managed access with expanded marine reserves, are already showing results. populations of fish have started to rebound and illegal fishing has dropped 60%. based on this success, belize is expected to pass a new national fisheries law soon that could be a model for other small-scale fisheries as they face climate change.