 edf is partnering with farmers and others who manage two-thirds of u.s. lands. the results: less pollution and more and better habitat for wildlife. america’s farmers are the world’s most productive, but this has come at a significant environmental cost. edf is transforming that equation, enabling farmers to enhance clean air, water and wildlife habitat while maintaining or increasing productivity. across the corn belt, crops have replaced native grasses and wetlands. without these natural filters, excess fertilizer runs off fields into the huge mississippi river basin, contaminating water supplies with an overload of nutrients. runoff plagues waters like the gulf of mexico, chesapeake bay and lake erie, where algae blooms threaten drinking water for 11 million people. excess fertilizer also leads to nitrous oxide emissions, worsening climate change. to cut fertilizer use, edf has built networks of farmers across ten states from minnesota to north carolina. in partnership with universities and farm groups, we’re showing farmers how to determine the precise amount of fertilizer their crops need. reducing the excess saves them money and cuts pollution. a powerful way to drive change is to partner with companies that have a huge impact on the supply chain. working with walmart and other food buyers, we aim to cut fertilizer use among the top 20% of corn farmers, who produce half the nation’s corn. corn covers 90 million acres and is the largest source of excess nitrogen. in 2012, edf also worked to ensure that the next farm bill contains strong incentives for farmers to restore wetlands and plant buffers alongside streams. among the projects we’re participating in: bloomington, illinois, will create wildlife-friendly wetlands to reduce nitrogen levels in the city water supply, eliminating the need for a $2 million water treatment plant. “our goal is to spur a green revolution in agriculture so farmers can feed the planet while nurturing healthy ecosystems that are more resilient to floods and drought,” says edf project director suzy friedman.