 millions of londoners face daily threats from air pollution. the city has exceeded legal limits for safe air every year since 2010. in response, edf europe, london mayor sadiq khan and partners launched an ambitious project that uses fixed and mobile sensors — combined with new data analytics — to measure and map air pollution across the british capital. already, the data is helping londoners further tackle pollution from city buses. the united states faces similar challenges, often disproportionately affecting low-income and minority communities. consider houston: the area averages a major chemical fire or explosion every six weeks, and only a small fraction result in fines. edf scientist dr. elena craft and her team are pushing all levels of government to increase inspections, improve monitoring and strengthen penalties. after fires at a chemical storage facility in 2019 sent a mile-high plume over the city, worried houston health officials — facing a shortage of resources — asked craft to help measure air quality. her team found high levels of benzene, a known carcinogen. edf pressed the state for legal action, and the texas attorney general filed suit against the facility responsible, an unprecedented legal action in the state. harris county, which includes houston, then acted on edf’s recommendations and allocated nearly $12 million for new personnel and equipment, including advanced air quality monitors. it was the region’s most significant investment in environmental protection in 30 years. “improving our ability to measure air pollution improves our ability to manage it,” says dr. loren hopkins, chief environmental science officer for the houston health department. a year ago, edf helped install air quality sensors on vehicles in houston’s municipal fleet. we’re also working directly with community groups in houston. in the predominantly african american neighborhood of pleasantville, hemmed in by metal recyclers, salvage yards and an interstate, edf is installing monitoring equipment so that residents can measure their air quality — arming them with the data they need to push for action. in china, an edf competition helped highlight new monitoring technologies. after we shared case studies with the government, it announced plans to include mobile monitoring in a national initiative to improve air quality substantially by 2020.