 people have long thought of the oceans as an inexhaustible source of food. but generations of heavy fishing and ill-conceived management have proved devastating for fish and coastal communities. in a classic tragedy of the commons, fishermen have felt compelled to catch the last fish before someone else does. as a result, some scientists warned that overfishing could take wild seafood off the menu by 2050. but this doesn’t have to be our future. new peer-reviewed research by edf and experts at the university of california at santa barbara and the university of washington documents the immense potential of fisheries to recover— and much faster than previously thought. the groundbreaking study, published in the proceedings of the national academy of sciences, shows that with proper management more than three-fourths of the world’s fisheries can be healthy within a decade, compared to one-third today. the study examines 4,713 fisheries, and its conclusions are being borne out in fisheries around the globe. implementing reforms like secure fishing rights will increase fish populations, boost profits, enhance food production and help fisheries become more resilient to climate change. how? by granting fishermen a right to a share of the catch—or access to a traditional fishing area—in exchange for adherence to sciencebased catch limits. this gives fishermen a reason to conserve: they benefit as fish populations recover and catches increase. this approach, championed by edf, helped triple red snapper populations in the gulf of mexico and is now established around the united states. by working to keep fisheries law strong and by implementing secure fishing rights, we’ve helped drive a 60% drop in overfished species in u.s. federal waters. we’re now expanding our impact globally. edf advised key officials as they rewrote the european union’s fisheries law, committing member nations to end overfishing. in sweden, for example, the government has endorsed our recommendations for reforms, including secure fishing rights, for the country’s most important fisheries in 2017. it’s all part of our effort to make sustainable and profitable fishing the norm worldwide.