 edf is working to cut methane emissions from the global oil and gas industry by 45 percent by 2025. that would deliver the same near-term climate benefit as closing about one-third of the world’s coal-fired power plants. the oil and gas industry is the largest u.s. industrial source of methane pollution, but how much methane is leaking was unknown until edf brought together more than 140 scientists from 40 institutions to publish dozens of peer-reviewed papers that sized up the problem. the conclusion: leakage is a whopping 60 percent higher than the epa estimated. once found, most leaks are not hard to fix. the findings helped shape new state regulations in california, colorado, pennsylvania and wyoming, along with the first national standards to reduce emissions from oil and natural gas production. now we’re using the data—and the courts—to hold the line against misguided attempts by the trump administration to roll back those standards. to take our solutions to global scale, edf is developing methanesat, a satellite to measure methane emissions worldwide, in partnership with harvard and the smithsonian astrophysical observatory. due to launch in 2021, methanesat includes a high-precision instrument with a wide field of view “ “ to map emissions that other satellites have been unable to detect. it will cover regions that encompass more than 80 percent of global oil and gas production. “satellite-derived data will help companies and governments locate problem sites and measure progress,” says edf chief scientist dr. steven hamburg. “and we will make our data public, to help citizens hold companies methanesat is just one of edf’s forays into emissions detection. we also called on technology developers to design ways to detect methane emissions using sensors mounted on field equipment, trucks, drones and planes. our aim is to have oil and gas industry leaders pilot the best of these technologies. one solution already being used by shell and equinor is a solar-powered laser system that uploads data continuously. the international energy agency estimates that half of the methane emitted from the global oil and gas supply chain could be stopped at no net cost, in part because energy companies can sell the extra gas captured. “cutting methane emissions from the global oil and gas industry is the single fastest thing we can do to put the brakes on climate change now,” says mark brownstein, edf’s senior vp for energy.