 fifty years ago, eight scientists and a lawyer met on long island, ny, to sign papers establishing a new kind of environmental group. some were ornithologists, with strong evidence that the pesticide ddt was causing the eggshells of ospreys to crack. their novel idea was to go to court to save america’s birds of prey. and they succeeded beyond their wildest dreams, winning a series of legal decisions that led to a nationwide ban on ddt in 1972. thanks to their work, the u.s. osprey population grew to an estimated 310,000 birds by 2016, more than triple the number in 1970, and bald eagles rebounded from 15,000 to 143,000. what the scientists couldn’t have known was that the organization they launched that day, environmental defense fund, would remain in the vanguard of environmental advocacy for the next half century. by combining the rigor of the scientific method, the insights of economics and the force of law, edf has amassed a remarkable record of results (see p. 8). the founding scientists, two of whom are still edf trustees, helped usher in the second wave of environmentalism, when litigation and regulation addressed the air and water pollution plaguing mid-20th century america. (the first wave began at the turn of the century, when president theodore roosevelt created 230 million acres of national parks and reserves.) in the 1980s, edf helped usher in the third wave, a strategy that built on the strengths of the first two waves, while addressing their limitations. this new approach tackled more than just the immediate causes of environmental degradation. it delivered solutions to the underlying problems. third wave practitioners, wrote edf president fred krupp in 1986, “recognize that behind the waste dumps and dams and power plants and pesticides that threaten major environmental harm, there are nearly always legitimate social needs—and that long-term solutions lie in finding alternative ways to meet those underlying needs.” this meant cooperation, bipartisanship and unlikely partnerships, as well as innovative policies that harnessed the power of markets to drive environmental progress. that was controversial thinking at the time—but it proved so effective that many other environmental groups eventually tried similar approaches. the world has reached a perilous moment. the trump administration is rolling back environmental safeguards even as the impacts of climate change drive home the need for urgent action. fortunately, an emerging fourth wave of environmentalism can help deliver change at the pace and scale we need, by using technological innovation to give people new ways to measure pollution, analyze data and take action. you’ll see examples of this throughout our report. in response to the administration’s assault, men and women around the world are affirming that environmental values are human values. states, cities, corporations and nations are all stepping up. this report shares some of the ways edf is helping them advance the cause. as we move with clear-eyed confidence into our second half-century defending the environment, we thank you for your steadfast support.