 despite decades of effort, existing tools to protect america’s rarest animals are not saving habitat fast enough to restore healthy populations. as many as 91 species of birds— including the whooping crane—are threatened with extinction. the key to recovery for many of these species lies with america’s private farm, ranch and forest landowners who manage twothirds of our nation’s land. edf has created powerful incentives for these landowners to embrace conservation without onerous regulations. with edf habitat exchanges, landowners are paid to maintain and improve habitat. the payments come from energy companies required to mitigate the damage they cause to lesser-quality habitat. nowhere is the urgency to save species greater than in the 16 western states where two iconic rangeland birds, the greater sage-grouse and lesser prairie-chicken, nest in sagebrush and grasslands. the birds’ shrinking habitat is home to the region’s largest economic engines— ranching and energy development. in 2014, the u.s. fish and wildlife service listed the prairie-chicken as threatened under the endangered species act. now the agency faces a 2015 deadline to decide if the sage-grouse is to be similarly protected. federal listing could severely crimp energy production and ranching across many states and trigger prolonged court battles with an uncertain outcome for the bird. edf is working to recover the prairiechicken by establishing a habitat exchange in the great plains. similar efforts are under way for the sage-grouse in colorado and wyoming. we’ll then expand our model to other states. scientists will measure and verify the conservation actions taken, so we can ensure wildlife receives benefits in excess of impact. a company that degrades habitat will need to buy enough habitat credits to more than compensate for the harm it causes. “this is the first systemic approach to conservation,” says edf scientist ted toombs, who’s helping write the operations manual for the exchanges. “we realized piecemeal conservation wasn’t saving species.” the approach builds on edf’s successful program in the texas hill country that aided the endangered golden-cheeked warbler in its texas breeding grounds. ranchers were paid by the fort hood army base, and a rare bird became a valuable asset to nurture, like any other crop. “by far the best feature of a habitat exchange is its collaborative nature,” says colorado rancher t. wright dickinson. “we all realize the status quo once numbering in the millions, the lesser prairie-chicken, known for its colorful courtship display, has declined more than 90% and survives on mere remnants of its historic range. 75% of threatened and endangered species are found on private land wasn’t working. edf came along at the right time. they put an end to the conflict industry that had accomplished little actual conservation.”