 edf was a strong voice for public health when many of the nation’s clear air rules were written. through science, advocacy and the courts, we’re defending existing standards and closing the remaining loopholes that expose americans to harmful pollution. a legal team on the front lines when industry groups challenge bedrock protections, edf fights back. in 2014 we won important victories: in april, the supreme court upheld epa rules which will reduce air pollution that drifts across state lines and causes unhealthy soot and smog in eastern states. edf was a party to this case and was instrumental in advocating and defending the new rules. also in april, a federal appeals court rejected a coal lobby challenge to a 2012 rule lowering mercury emissions from power plants. mercury is highly toxic and linked to brain damage in children. edf defended the standards, which represent one of the biggest public health advances in a generation. the supreme court denied an industry petition to throw out california’s low-carbon fuel standard, which cuts climate pollution from transportation fuels. edf was a party to the case, and co-sponsored the landmark california greenhouse gas law. clean transportation following decades of work by edf to make cars and trucks cleaner, epa issued a rule which will significantly cut the sulfur content of gasoline. the proposed rule, tier 3, will dramatically reduce smog, soot and air toxics, saving thousands of lives every year. efforts in low-income communities too often, the right to breathe clean air has been denied to people in low-income communities. in houston, for example, the port abuts low-income neighborhoods. more than one-third of the port’s air pollution comes from heavy, dieselfueled trucks, so edf created a program that helps truckers buy cleaner trucks. the effort will lead to a dramatic reduction in trucks’ diesel emissions, including fine soot and smog-forming nitrogen oxides. both pollutants have been linked to asthma and respiratory illnesses, and smog is especially harmful to active children. the program is now a model for other ports around the country.