 advancing smart policies requires smart politics. our sister organization, environmental defense action fund, helps broaden support on both sides of the aisle. in 2012, when bipartisanship was hard to find in washington, dc, edf’s legislative strategy helped achieve a remarkable result: supermajorities of both the house and senate passed the restore act, directing what could amount to billions of dollars of bp’s oil spill fines for environmental restoration on the gulf coast. the resources of our sister organization, environmental defense action fund, helped make this and other victories possible. unlike edf, whose legislative lobbying expenses are strictly limited by tax law, the separate action fund, as a 501(c)(4) organization, receives non‑tax-deductible contributions and is not constrained by such spending limits. for example, contributions to the action fund paid for polling in florida that found over 70% of republicans, democrats and independents were more likely to support candidates who backed the restore act. action fund contributions also paid for an advertising blitz that helped convince wavering lawmakers. “no environmental legislation has ever been passed without bipartisan support, so it’s critical to depolarize environmental issues,” says environmental defense action fund president elizabeth thompson. “that’s why we’re engaging with the political system in a nonpartisan way.” the action fund helped secure many other edf advances this year as well. for oceans, it brought fishermen together with members of congress to talk about catch shares, a sustainable approach to fisheries management. for health, it helped defeat an effort by senator james inhofe (r-ok) to roll back limits on toxic mercury pollution from power plants. for climate and energy, it fended off broader attempts in congress to limit epa’s authority to enforce the clean air act. at the state level, it helped win provisions requiring disclosure of the chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing. to help deliver edf’s message, we have assembled a network of influential supporters, our strategic partners. these allies—including local and national civic and religious leaders, economists and ceos—contact legislators personally and explain our solutions. “we can’t match the lobbyists dollar for dollar,” says wendy sommer, director of the strategic partners program, “but personal advocacy can cut through their arguments and persuade lawmakers to do the right thing.”