 the long fight to reform america’s obsolete chemical safety law has reached critical mass. first passed in 1976—the year apple sold its first computer—the toxic substances control act (tsca) has proved so woefully inadequate that epa hasn’t been able to control even known human carcinogens like formaldehyde. in almost 40 years, tsca has required testing of only about 3% of the 85,000 chemicals available for use. nearly two decades ago, edf began a long quest for fundamental reform. in 1997, we published toxic ignorance, a seminal report which revealed that even the most common chemicals lacked basic health data. since then, we’ve worked with epa, states, and health, labor, business and consumer groups to push tsca reform. from the beginning, edf’s dr. richard denison was at the center of this process. he worked with all parties, overcoming resistance from industry opponents. denison’s regular blog posts on edf.org, explaining the scientific and political implications of the debate, became a must-read for all players. and when a chemical spill in 2014 near charleston, wv, left 300,000 people without drinking water, denison served as a key resource for beleaguered residents looking for answers. in 2015, bipartisan legislation, the frank r. lautenberg chemical safety act, offered the first serious revision of tsca ever. when it came before the senate, we helped strengthen it. denison worked closely with cosponsors senator tom udall (d-nm) and senator david vitter (r-la), providing expert advice as they made hundreds of improvements to fix flaws and broaden support. our lobbying arm, edf action, kept open the lines of communication between republicans and democrats. a filibuster-proof 60 senators have signed on to the lautenberg bill, creating the potential for a huge bipartisan win—a rarity in today’s politics. the support ranges from liberal democrats like ed markey (d-ma) to conservative republicans like jim inhofe (r-ok). “the public has waited long enough,” said denison. “the lautenberg act deserves to become law as soon as possible.”