 fred yoder farms 1,500 acres of corn and wheat in the ohio grain belt, where generations of farmers have raised crops. but unlike his forebears, yoder practices conservation tillage and precision management of nutrients. he is part of a growing number of american farmers dedicated to sustainable agriculture. “if we are to feed a growing population,” says yoder, “agriculture must increase productivity and reduce its environmental footprint.” in any given year, only 40% of the fertilizer that farmers apply is taken up by crops. much of the rest runs off into rivers and lakes, creating huge algae blooms in the gulf of mexico, lake erie and the chesapeake bay that choke marine life and threaten drinking water. excess fertilizer also escapes into the atmosphere as nitrous oxide, a potent greenhouse gas. edf is tackling the problem with a focus on grain, the biggest source of fertilizer pollution. we began a decade ago and have helped farmers on 750,000 acres in 12 states cut fertilizer loss by 10 to 20%, while maintaining yields. but to solve the problem, we need a nationwide effort, so we engaged walmart, america’s biggest grocer. three years ago, walmart asked its suppliers to find ways to reduce fertilizer runoff and improve soil health. so far, 16 companies representing 30% of the u.s. food and beverage market have signed on, setting goals to improve water quality and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. campbell soup company, kellogg’s, smithfield foods and others have committed to having the farmers who supply them adopt best practices on 23 million acres by 2020. but these companies aren’t usually in direct contact with the farmers in their supply chain, and farmers themselves often lack the information to apply fertilizer most efficiently. to bridge these gaps, edf teamed up with the giant cooperative united suppliers (now part of land o’lakes), whose members advise farmers growing crops on 45 million acres. together, we developed a program to train advisors to farmers on ways to reduce fertilizer loss and improve soil health. edf’s goal: to have half of all u.s. corn sustainably grown by 2020. says yoder: “across the midwest, edf is helping farmers like me transition to climate-friendly agriculture.”