 in a willow swamp south of new orleans, two scientists are ankle-deep in mud, watching the mississippi river overflow its banks. a big idea is taking shape here. edf and local scientists are monitoring how the river builds up land by depositing sediment. their goal is to harness the power of the mississippi to restore land that is critical to new orleans’ survival. “a river builds land at a scale that humans with bulldozers can’t match,” says edf scientist dr. angelina freeman. over the past century, the army corps of engineers has turned the mississippi into a walled canal that shoots hundreds of millions of tons of precious sediment into the gulf of mexico each year. largely as a result, louisiana loses 17 square miles of coastland annually, exposing the area to hurricanes and oil spills and threatening wildlife habitat, the nation’s busiest port and a $23 billion fishing industry. “we’ve pushed the system to the edge,” says edf attorney james tripp, who has worked on the gulf for 35 years. “now it’s time to rebuild it.” after the bp deepwater horizon disaster, we and our partners worked with senator mary landrieu (d-la) on the restore act, a bill to dedicate 80% of any bp fines to gulf restoration. with our sister organization, environmental defense action fund, we engaged businesspeople, scientists and community leaders to help persuade congress. with duke university, we showed how coastal restoration will create thousands of jobs. “our message to lawmakers was that prosperity depends on conservation,” says our water program director paul harrison. we worked across party lines, and our members sent more than 100,000 messages to congress. in june 2012, the law passed by huge majorities: 373–52 in the house and 74–19 in the senate. senator landrieu called edf “absolutely instrumental” to the legislation’s success. depending on the final outcome of bp’s case, up to $17 billion in fines could help repair the gulf coast and improve the lives of millions of people. the road map for restoration is the louisiana coastal master plan, which edf helped shape. the plan envisions reviving 860 square miles of coastal land, contingent on funding, and the army corps is using our models to plan the first restorations. “soon,” says harrison, “the river will once again revitalize coastal land for generations to come.” edf also is ensuring that local communities and businesses benefit from the restoration. for example, we’re helping the area’s oyster industry, on which 200,000 jobs depend, adapt to a changing coastline. “with edf involved, we are moving forward,” says mike voisin of motivatit seafoods in houma, louisiana.