 in iowa, a farmer boosts his corn and soybean yield while using one-third less fertilizer— saving money and cutting pollution at the same time. in colorado, a rancher improves wildlife habitat on his land, earning from that investment. and in california, a commercial fisherman opposes a new way of managing the fishery, then realizes the new approach— championed by edf—has revived his business, because a healthy fishery means there are more fish to catch. “i’m man enough to admit i was wrong,” says geoff bettencourt, the fisherman. “edf put the positives back into fishing. they understand that sustainability is not just about conserving fish, it’s also about families who have been fishing for generations.” these stories share a common thread, of edf and our partners developing powerful new ideas, economic levers that let people profit from protecting the environment, not exploiting it. “rather than telling us what to do, edf helped us become better managers and better stewards of the soil,” says denny friest, the iowa farmer. people who work close to the land aren’t the only beneficiaries of our approach. at a historically black college in north carolina, the chancellor had no incentive to conserve energy because the law didn’t let his school keep the savings—until edf got the law changed and showed him ways to conserve. in new york city, edf and mayor michael bloomberg created a clean heat partnership that helped secure $100 million in mostly private financing to convert buildings from dirty heating fuel. and in wuhan, china, an environmental enforcement officer, frustrated that he couldn’t stop illegal pollution from a factory, turned to us for help. we showed him how to enlist the buyer of the factory’s products—and the buyer soon demanded that the factory clean up its act. “by finding those leverage points, we can scale change rapidly,” says edf vice president dr. daniel dudek, who runs our china program. science sets the agenda founded by scientists in 1967, edf grounds its advocacy in strong science and unlikely partnerships that create lasting change. during the 1970s we became the first environmental group to hire economists to work alongside our scientists, lawyers and policy experts. we discovered that if you make environmental protection pay, people will invent all kinds of ways to make it happen. we’re optimists, because we have seen our ideas make a huge difference: cutting acid rain pollution in half, for example—ahead of schedule and below estimated cost. nonpartisan and pragmatic, we understand that every landmark environmental law in u.s. history has been passed by a bipartisan majority, and we’re making that happen today. this year, edf’s sister organization, environmental defense action fund, helped rally the support of 74 senators and 373 representatives for the restore act, which earmarks 80% of fines from the bp oil disaster for gulf coast restoration. we believe that to succeed over the long term, environmental sustainability must be economically sustainable as well. through our corporate partnership program, edf works with companies to drive change through entire industries, but we accept no funding from our corporate partners because our voice must be strong and independent. more protection per dollar when tough rules are required, we fight for them and defend them in court. and we know that the best regulations don’t hurt the economy—they drive innovation by setting strong standards for environmental performance and giving people the flexibility to meet them at lowest cost. it’s a clear-eyed, hard-headed environmentalism that delivers the most bang for the buck, and we’re proud of it. on the following pages, you’ll learn more about the edf playbook, beginning with a partnership to measure global warming pollution in natural gas fields. it is remarkable work like this that makes us a different kind of environmental group.