 shortly after amy and george greer moved to their 6,700-acre cattle ranch in the texas hill country in 2008, they stumbled upon a magical sight: the trees bordering the creek on their property were festooned with thousands of monarch butterflies. “i’ll never forget it,” says amy greer, a biologist and sixth-generation rancher. “we never saw anything like that again.” the great annual migration of monarchs spans the entire continental united states. but in just two decades, the butterfly’s numbers have plummeted 90%. scientists warn it could be extinct in 20 years if conservation efforts fail. a key reason for the monarch’s decline is the loss of the species’ milkweed habitat, where butterflies lay their eggs and caterpillars feed. in 2017, edf launched a nationwide campaign to save the monarch, focusing on farmers who own much of the land along the “superhighways” used by monarchs to reach their mexican wintering grounds. our goal is to restore 800,000 acres of native habitat, helping the species weather multiple threats. to encourage exchanges are now being launched in california, missouri and texas. a wide array of potential investors—from food companies to conservation funds and private citizens—has responded to the project, recognizing that it will help all pollinators, including native bees. at the greer ranch and elsewhere, edf has developed habitat plans based on planting native flowering plants, as well as a tool for measuring habitat quality, so that investors have a baseline against which to measure progress. all agriculture stakeholders, from farmers to food companies, have an incentive to help keep the butterfly from being listed as endangered. such a listing could mean unwanted regulation and land-use the restoration of habitat, we created the monarch butterfly habitat exchange, where farmers and ranchers can earn credits for growing milkweed, which are then sold through the exchange to buyers who want to see the monarch survive. the u.s. fish and wildlife service has approved edf habitat exchanges as a preferred option for saving at-risk species, and the first restrictions for landowners. “we can also use the income,” adds george greer. “i have a lot of respect for everything edf does,” says amy greer, who also surveyed habitat for the black-capped vireo with us. “if we can take our piece of land and restore it to help the butterfly, my hope is that will inspire others and we’ll get to the scale we need.”