 on a blustery august day, 30 miles off monterey, ca, capt. joe pennisi hauls up a net and dumps 5,000 pounds of chilipepper rockfish onto the deck. as crew members sort the fish, a biologist records unwanted species and notes their weight—a scant 40 pounds, or less than 1% of the catch. “this is a new day,” says pennisi, a fourth-generation fisherman. “we’re totally accountable.” not long ago, trawl fishermen like pennisi were blamed for this west coast fishery’s collapse. “i’ll never forget the day when i saw a carpet of dead fish as big as a football field,” he says. “the culprit was senseless regulations.” back then, if a fisherman caught too many of an overfished species, he was forced to dump the excess in the ocean. “it made me sick,” pennisi says. he lost pride in his job and sold his boat. but then in 2011, regulators switched the fishery to a catch share model. this approach, which edf helped develop, gives each boat a percentage of the overall catch. observers are required on all boats, and if a fisherman catches more than his share, he can buy quota from others, still keeping the total catch within the scientifically determined limit. “unlike other management tools, catch shares reward fishermen for conservation,” says shems jud, edf’s west coast fisheries director. “as the fishery recovers, the value of each share grows.” fishermen who once fiercely competed now share information to avoid overfished species. that was enough to get pennisi back on the water. he partnered with edf to design a light-trawl net that floats above the sea floor, allowing him to cut fuel costs and avoid sensitive habitat. other fishermen also switched to more selective gear. the result: pacific groundfish stocks are rebuilding, revenue is up and the amount of discarded fish has dropped about 80%. in august, the monterey bay aquarium upgraded the sustainability rating of 21 of these species of rockfish, sole and other groundfish in its seafood guide. “fifteen years ago they wrote the obituary for this fishery,” says brad pettinger, president of the oregon trawl commission. “we’re showing we can be good stewards if given the right incentives.”