 in december 2011, the environmental protection agency gave a very special gift to america’s children. the agency issued the first national limits on mercury, arsenic and other toxic emissions from power plants. this action, one of the biggest public health advances in a generation, will prevent up to 11,000 premature deaths and 130,000 asthma attacks annually. working with the american lung association and other allies, edf played a key role in making the case for progress. there was little time to celebrate. hours after the new mercury and air toxics standards were unveiled, senator james inhofe (r-ok) announced plans to block them, claiming that their health benefits were “epa propaganda.” our legal experts, led by edf general counsel vickie patton, sprang into action. along with our legislative team, they provided analysis, testified on capitol hill and worked with industry partners and states to support the rules. after a tense struggle, inhofe’s bill was defeated. a big part of our push came from moms clean air force, a band of mothers—now more than 100,000 strong—that we helped launch to mobilize clean air supporters. “no politician wants to make a mother angry,” says the group’s leader, author dominique browning. mercury exposure, even in small quantities, can affect children’s brains and nervous systems. but the mercury fight is not over. it is part of a larger struggle over epa’s authority to enforce the clean air act. center stage this year was the u.s. court of appeals in washington, dc, where dozens of lawsuits by industry groups and others aimed to deny the agency’s power to act on global warming pollution. in response, edf and allies—coordinated by attorney sean donahue, who has successfully argued on edf’s behalf before the supreme court—again worked around the clock, intervening in four cases. in june, the court ruled unanimously in our favor, affirming epa’s finding that greenhouse gases pose a danger to public health. in blunt language, the court declared that epa’s interpretation of the clean air act was “unambiguously correct.” the judges said that the agency had based its finding on sound science, which showed, for example, that greenhouse gases increase ground-level ozone, worsening harmful smog. the ruling clears the way for the first nationwide limits on greenhouse gas emissions from new vehicles and large new industrial sources. many businesses support clean air laws, but others keep pushing congress and the courts to roll them back. “we can’t let down our guard,” says patton. “but i’m optimistic. we have the law—and the public—on our side.”