 sustaining, restoring and enhancing the nation’s fish, wildlife, plants and habitats for current and future generations — this is nfwf’s mission. to advance that mission, the foundation must serve a leading role in national efforts to ensure that wildlife populations and human communities can adapt to changing environmental conditions and withstand the stresses, disruptions and disasters of the modern world. the foundation and its partners must invest in resilience, and they must do so at a landscape scale. the stakes couldn’t be higher along the nation’s coasts, which are being battered by increasingly intense storms and threatened by sea-level rise. these same vulnerable areas are home to rich natural resources, enormous metropolitan areas, global trade centers, vital defense installations — and about 130 million people. recognizing the need to accelerate investment in coastal resilience, including projects that encourage innovative new approaches to addressing this challenge, nfwf worked with noaa to launch the national coastal resilience fund. since 2018, the fund has awarded $90 million to enhance, build, or restore almost 17,800 acres of coastal habitat. projects have provided enhanced protection to 100,400 properties and 2,500 critical facilities or pieces of nature-based infrastructure. to meet the growing demand from prospective grantees, nfwf has welcomed additional funding partners and supporters to the program, including shell oil company, transre, at&t, the u.s. environmental protection agency and the u.s. department of defense. in fiscal year 2020, the foundation also awarded nearly $50 million in grants through another resilience-focused program, the emergency coastal resilience fund. leveraging emergency appropriations by congress, nfwf created this fund to address widespread destruction from hurricanes florence and michael, typhoon yutu and a number of wildfires in 2018. the grants awarded through these new programs build on nfwf’s deep experience in funding coastal conservation in heavily populated watersheds, including those feeding the chesapeake bay, long island sound, puget sound and the great lakes.