 from the creation of nfwf’s new rocky mountain regional office to the awarding of both large-scale and locally focused grants, 2015 was a year of cooperative action and careful investment on the northern great plains. across millions of acres stretching from nebraska through wyoming, montana and the dakotas, nfwf funding helped a diverse group of stakeholders tackle complex conservation challenges affecting a suite of native species. university researchers, conservation organizations, ranchers and government agencies worked to restore habitats for sage grouse and other at-risk grassland birds. ranchers and other private landowners protected migration routes for pronghorn, and native american wildlife stewards continued efforts to reintroduce rare plains species on tribal lands. michael kinsey, a wildlife biologist with the gros ventre tribe, has been working with nfwf and other conservation partners to study and bolster wildlife populations at the fort belknap reservation in montana. with nfwf support, kinsey and his colleagues have been developing a comprehensive wildlife management plan. “fish, amphibians, reptiles, birds, mammals – we’re looking at all of it,” kinsey said. in early 2015, kinsey began mapping prairie dog towns and conducting population density estimates of the iconic plains mammal. in september, kinsey’s tribe worked with conservation groups and the u.s. fish and wildlife service to release 15 black-footed ferrets at those sites. nearly wiped out by habitat loss and disease, black-footed ferrets number just a few hundred in the wild. these exceedingly rare animals prey on prairie dogs and depend on intact grassland habitats such as those found on fort belknap and other reservations. kinsey also worked with researchers from oregon state university on a nfwf-supported effort to study and eventually reintroduce another at-risk species: the swift fox. about the size of a house cat, these small canids have suffered steep population declines across their range in the northern plains of the united states and canada. mark azure, president of the fort belknap tribal council, said the reintroduction of such animals to tribal lands reinforces a deep cultural connection to land and wildlife. “throughout our history, everything was respected, every species had a place. whether it’s ferrets, prairie dogs, swift foxes or even buffalo, pronghorn and elk – if we can put something back that has been taken away, we should do that. it’s a type of healing, really, and a way that we have control of our own destiny. i think that’s huge. i really do, and i hope it continues.”