 the national fish and wildlife foundation (nfwf) achieved remarkable success in fiscal year 2018, investing more than $324 million to support more than 750 conservation projects that sustain and enhance wildlife and habitats. nfwf (affectionately referred to by those in the conservation community as “niff-wiff”) serves a unique and powerful role in protecting the nation’s ecological treasures, managing its natural resources and helping its communities become more resilient. chartered by congress in 1984, nfwf leverages public dollars to raise private funds for conservation, then puts those dollars to work through science-based competitive grant programs that generate measurable results. as a nonpartisan organization that neither lobbies nor litigates, nfwf serves as a neutral partner and leader for on-the-ground conservation. through rigorous fiduciary management and strong financial performance, the foundation has grown to become the largest private conservation funder in the nation, generating a total conservation impact from investments and grantee match of more than $5.3 billion since its founding. nfwf’s particularly strong performance in 2018 ensures that its grantees and partners in the public and private sectors can count on the foundation’s support of innovative and effective conservation projects well into the future. examples of such work unfolded throughout the country in 2018. along the gulf coast, state resource managers continued to protect and restore vast stretches of coastal and marine habitats. along the nation’s coastlines, a new partnership with the national oceanic and atmospheric administration bolstered the resilience of habitats and communities. in the fireprone mountains of california, volunteers and federal forest managers removed excess fuels and restored habitats impacted by wildfire. in the northern rockies, nfwf worked with the u.s. department of the interior and other partners to protect migration pathways for some of the country’s most iconic species. in the south, longstanding public-private partnerships continued to support the restoration of longleaf pine forests. and throughout the nation’s great watersheds, projects improved water quality for countless species of fish and amphibians. all of us here at nfwf look forward to building on these many successes in 2019. please read on to learn more about what we do, and how we do it.