 the chesapeake bay once held enough oysters to filter its entire volume of water in a matter of days. vast expanses of oyster reefs teemed with hundreds of species of crustaceans, fish and birds that rely on the keystone shellfish at some point in their life cycles. today, after centuries of over-harvesting, disease, siltation and diminishing water quality, the bay’s oyster population stands at a paltry two percent of its historic level. in late 2013, nfwf joined with csx, one of the nation’s leading transportation suppliers, and the state of maryland to launch the “csx oyster express.” this innovative, public-private partnership became a key component of the largest oyster restoration project ever undertaken in the chesapeake bay and one of the largest projects of its kind in the nation. the csx oyster express helped solve one of the biggest challenges presented by oyster restoration projects of this scale: securing and covering the cost of transporting enormous amounts of suitable substrate upon which young oysters, or spat, can attach and thrive. working with nfwf, csx provided an in-kind investment valued at approximately $2.4 million to ship the oyster shell on the oyster express. throughout 2014, csx trains carried fossilized oyster shell from a quarry in florida’s panhandle to the port of baltimore once every 10 to 14 days. by the end of the program, the csx oyster express took 22 round trips carrying about 125,000 cubic yards of 3-millionyear- old shell, enough to cover 80 football fields with shell 12 inches deep. other project partners took over from there, carrying the prehistoric shell on more than 40 barge trips to specially selected portions of harris creek and other locations on maryland’s eastern shore. now resting on the bottom, the ancient shell serves as a foundation for hundreds of acres of new oyster reefs, some already loaded with oyster spat. throughout the summer of 2014, teams from the university of maryland center for environmental science and the oyster recovery partnership planted more than 500 million spat at the new reefs. “the goal is to plant even more next summer, possibly as many as 1.5 billion,” says michael naylor, shellfish program director for the maryland department of natural resources – fisheries service. the young oysters were cultivated at the university of maryland’s horn point laboratory, one of the largest oyster hatcheries on the east coast. in addition to the $2.4 million in-kind contribution from csx, since 2000, the chesapeake bay stewardship fund has provided $3 million to support oyster restoration projects to filter polluted water and create essential fish habitat.