 the comeback kid with support from the foundation, a number of conservation projects have helped to conserve the black-tailed prairie dog, which was removed as a candidate for listing under the endangered species act in august 2004. based on recent estimates of the animal’s habitat and new information on the impact of disease, chemical control and other factors, the u.s. fish and wildlife service has determined that the black-tailed prairie dog is now not likely to become an endangered species within the foreseeable future. the pathway to success since 1990, the foundation has supported projects with more than $1 million in federal funds and more than $2.4 million in nonfederal and matching funds. the lessons learned from these projects helps conserve sage steppe and sage brush habitat, as well as critical habitat for sage grouse. the black-tailed prairie dog is a keystone species in western states, which means that the health of short- and mixed-grass prairie ecosystems and the wildlife found there — particularly the federally endangered black-footed ferret, mountain plovers and burrowing owls — are dependent on healthy populations of this small mammal. the following are successfully-funded projects since 2000 that have helped to conserve this species: childress independent school district – this project brought together community partners to purchase, restore and enhance an 80-acre parcel of land to reintroduce a black-tailed prairie dog ecosystem, while creating an educational project open to the public. high plains resource conservation and development council – this grantee worked with small-scale agricultural producers in western oklahoma to restore short- and mixed-grass prairie ecosystems on private lands, and also performed research in black-tailed prairie dog habitat in eastern new mexico. native american fish and wildlife society – funding of an intertribal prairie dog coordinator position supported eight american indian tribes in three states to develop black-tailed prairie dog management plans. the nature conservancy – the conservancy conducted surveys on the 60,000-acre matador ranch in north-central montana to determine the suitability for the reintroduction of black-tailed prairie dogs. northern cheyenne tribe – shortgrass prairie conservation efforts on the northern cheyenne indian reservation in southeast montana included on-the-ground restoration, reduction in grazing fees and monetary incentives. u.s. geological survey (usgs), biological resources division – the usgs evaluated vaccination as a potential management tool to prevent plague infections in blacktailed prairie dogs, black-footed ferrets and associated species. university of wyoming and the wyoming game and fish department – funding of an interstate coordinator position helped ensure effective communication among eleven participating tribes and state and federal agencies.