 a colossal effort to rebuild and restore 13 miles of coastline along the gulf of mexico ranks as the largest conservation project ever undertaken by the state of louisiana and nfwf. this massive conservation project is unfolding on the caminada headlands, a beach and marsh system that serves as a barrier between the gulf of mexico and port fourchon, louisiana’s southernmost port and one of the nation’s most important energy hubs. over the past 100 years, the caminada headlands has experienced extensive shoreline erosion. this loss of land has destroyed natural habitats critical not only to shorebirds, fish and crustaceans, but also to the culture of southern louisiana. the degradation of this barrier island system also puts port fourchon — and the nation’s energy supply — at far greater risk from hurricanes. port fourchon supplies nearly 18 percent of the country’s entire oil supply, and its tenants service an estimated 90 percent of the oil and gas exploration in the gulf of mexico. a 2014 study found that a 21-day interruption of operations at port fourchon would cost $11.2 billion in lost sales at u.s. firms, $3.2 billion in lost household earnings and 65,502 jobs throughout the country. rebuilding such a critical landscape at such an immense scale — a new beach about 100 yards wide and 13 miles long — requires monumental efforts. when the nfwf-funded portion of the project is complete, workers will have dredged more than 5 million cubic yards of sand from ship shoal, an 8,000-yearold submerged barrier island 27 miles away in the gulf of mexico. sand fencing and planting of native vegetation will help stabilize the new dunes, providing stopover sites for migrating songbirds and nesting habitats for shorebirds. the historic project has been divided into two stages; nfwf funded the second phase with $144.5 million from its gulf environmental benefit fund in 2014. a significant portion of the dredging and construction work for this phase was accomplished in 2015. “landscape-level projects such as the caminada headlands restoration are incredibly challenging, but they’re critical to the future of louisiana,” said chett chiasson, executive director of the port of fourchon. “barrier island systems such as those being rebuilt on caminada are integral aspects of local communities and culture in southern louisiana. these headlands also provide a natural buffer from catastrophic weather events, which is critically important to the resiliency of regional and national economies.”