 healthy rangelands depend on vigorous native species. to nurture indigenous plant and animal life is to invest in the future of not only an environment, but also an american way of life. for 20 years, the national fish and wildlife foundation has worked to preserve and restore rangeland across the united states. from land trusts to species restoration to innovative partnerships, we work always toward enduring maintenance of grasslands, shrublands, and grazing ground. to succeed, however, public and private landowners must cooperate closely—for species’ health, as well as for the farmers and ranchers whose livelihoods depend on them. in just one of many nfwf rangeland conservation projects, since 1996 we have partnered with the usda forest service and the bureau of land management (blm) to revitalize sage grouse habitat in the western u.s. because the birds use such diverse habitats, to which they remain faithful each year, they are the shrub-steppe ecosystem’s denominative species: their well-being reflects that of the entire system. when agencies and landowners saw a decline in sage grouse populations due to habitat degradation, they knew restoring and carefully monitoring grouse populations would be critical to maintaining the rangelands. nfwf and its partners—including corporate allies conocophillips and fmc—have since invested more than $6 million to fund research, identification, and monitoring of the birds’ specialized habitats. these programs also support protection, restoration, and education projects on public and private lands. together, our public and private landowners are making significant strides toward the stabilization and recovery of prairie and rangeland wildlife. the grouse project typifies our approach. the partnership mentality is reflected in all our rangeland conservation efforts. in new mexico, the continuing optimizing wildlife habitat and grazing project explores habitat treatment options to sustain the endangered lesser prairie chicken while maintaining profitable cattle grazing communities. land management recommendations from the project are applicable on up to 50 million acres of rangeland in the five states of the lesser prairie chicken’s range. in minnesota, we work with local volunteers and non-profit organizations to increase the greater prairie chicken population, hoping to restore and eventually reconnect the species across minnesota and the eastern dakotas. and across the u.s., we work with other local organizations and members of the hunting and fishing community to enlarge conservation activity in their own towns and counties. health. production. vigor. many uses sharing the land. many partners cooperating. these are our goals for foundation projects for healthy rangeland across the u.s.