 for two decades, a determined network of local conservation organizations and stewardship groups across the nation has acted as nfwf’s hands on the ground. from georgia to oregon and maine to hawaii, nfwf offers the critical funding needed to reach out to others in their communities to raise conservation awareness. in the west, for example, nfwf funds have acted as the catalyst in bringing diverse groups together to address topics ranging from timbering practices to habitat degradation caused by overgrazing. one wyoming grant helped develop courses for middle and high school teachers that focused on the ecological, economic, and cultural benefits of rangeland conservation. elsewhere, the nature of learning, launched in 2003 as part of the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the national wildlife refuge system, deepens students’ understanding of conservation issues. nature of learning programs support: refuges as classrooms for hands-on learning; student-led stewardship projects to connect classroom lessons to real issues; partnerships among local businesses, schools, and community groups. easily our most popular local initiative, the 5 star restoration program supports community-based wetland and riparian projects. five years into the program, nfwf—with other partners including epa, noaa, the national association of counties, and the wildlife habitat council—has awarded over 250 grants for community stewardship and education. while the program enhances local fish and wildlife habitats, it also engages a diverse group of partners, from local governments to businesses to schools. the american hunting and fishing community is also vital to conservation efforts across the u.s., funding 65 percent of state fish and wildlife agency budgets. hunters and fishermen and women play a crucial role—more than $4.7 million a day goes directly to conservation from excise taxes on ammunition, licenses, and other necessities. corporate partners such as bass pro shops, orvis, and anheuser-busch have long understood the importance of the hunting and fishing community to wildlife conservation. a quick look finds programs such as these: the “help budweiser help the outdoors” program connects budweiser customers, nfwf, and other leading conservation organizations to deliver more than $2 million to habitat projects, helping game and non-game species across the country. the chesapeake bay conservation challenge has, since 2002, raised more than $250,000 to protect and restore the bay. nfwf partners with bass pro shops and others such as chesapeake bay foundation and conservation fund to restore habitat for striped bass, bluefish, and migratory waterfowl. the green mountain ruffed grouse initiative restored nearly 1,000 acres of upland habitat in vermont, benefiting game and non-game birds as well as other wildlife. this effort, made possible by long-time partner orvis, also enhanced recreational opportunities for outdoorsmen and women.