 the effectiveness of nfwf and its conservation partners depends entirely upon the willingness and ability of people around the country to take action and generate measurable conservation results on the ground. the foundation recognizes that returns on conservation investments and the sustainability of successes increase dramatically when more people are involved in conservation activities. for this reason, nfwf emphasizes a third focal area: engaging people in conservation. throughout 2016, the foundation funded projects that involved a range of volunteers, including recent college graduates, elementary school students, military veterans, and sportsmen and women. by the close of the fiscal year, nfwf had awarded more than $47.9 million in grants that specifically addressed the need to engage people in conservation. nfwf also continued to lead efforts to help private landowners, farmers, ranchers and timber operators enhance habitats for wildlife while keeping their working lands productive. with nfwf support in 2016, private landowners preserved habitat for sage grouse, restored streamside habitat in western mountain ranges, and conserved timber holdings in the northeast and southeast. the foundation also continued to invest in the science needed to effectively address some of the country’s toughest conservation challenges. nfwf grants enabled researchers to use nanotags to track migrating shorebirds, edna methodology to identify invasive fish in the rocky mountains, and sonar tags to study the migration of commercially important fish in the gulf of mexico. to protect prairie dogs and black-footed ferrets from sylvatic plague, scientists used unmanned aerial vehicles to disperse vaccine-laden morsels in the great plains. the foundation’s grants also made a difference at a personal level. residents in the midwest planted milkweed seeds to help beloved monarch butterflies. young alaska natives embarked on careers in natural resource management. volunteers removed invasive plants in hawaii and protected sea turtle nests in florida. and hikers, birders, anglers and hunters gained access to some the country’s most beautiful and productive natural areas.