 operating at landscape scale nfwf funds conservation projects in all 50 states and u.s. territories. many of the foundation’s largest and longest-running conservation programs are national or regional in scope, and are designed to restore habitats and support wildlife across multiple regions, throughout marine environments and along migratory pathways. by investing more than $324 million in fiscal year 2018 to support more than 750 projects across the nation — drawing more than $159 million in matching support from grantees — nfwf was able to tackle conservation projects at landscape scale, often protecting entire suites of habitats. building on success in focal areas one key to nfwf’s effectiveness lies in its ability to build on past successes and leverage existing public-private partnerships in established focal landscapes. examples include the northern great plains, the forests of central and southern california, the extensive longleaf forests of the south and the watersheds of the great lakes, chesapeake bay and delaware river. throughout 2018, the foundation also continued to build on success in programs focused on particular at-risk species, including sea turtles, pacific seabirds, corals and bats. competitive grant programs nfwf implements and manages competitive grant programs that combine public and private dollars with matching contributions from grantees to generate the greatest possible conservation impact. grant proposals are reviewed by experts and approved by the foundation’s board of directors. following congressional notification, grant awards are announced publicly, with details on amounts and grantees posted at nfwf.org. nfwf does not fund political advocacy or litigation of any kind. as a neutral, trusted conservation partner, the foundation funds on-the-ground work that supports wildlife, habitats and local communities. supporting effective organizations nfwf supports some of the nation’s largest and most important conservation nonprofits, as well as some of its smallest. in 2018, the foundation supported large conservation projects by major conservation organizations such as the nature conservancy, the conservation fund and ducks unlimited. such significant fiscal commitments ensured the protection of enormous tracts of natural habitats that otherwise could have been lost forever. smaller grants enabled local entities to address conservation needs across the country. local nonprofits such as the washington water trust worked with irrigation districts, ranchers and farmers to conserve water. grants to small municipalities such as berlin, connecticut helped connect wateryways for fish passage and improve management of stormwater. volunteer groups across the country, including numerous national wildlife refuge friends groups, received critical support for stewardship activities.