 gulf environmental benefit fund nfwf awarded nearly $150 million through its gulf environmental benefit fund (gebf) in fiscal year 2018. the gebf was created in 2013 to receive and administer funds resulting from plea agreements between the u.s. department of justice and bp and transocean resolving certain criminal charges following the 2010 deepwater horizon oil spill. provisions within the agreements directed a total of $2.54 billion to be used to support projects benefiting natural resource in the gulf states. through the program’s first five years, nfwf had awarded more than $1 billion to landscape-scale projects identified as high priorities by state officials in alabama, florida, louisiana, mississippi and texas. alabama nfwf awarded more than $35.2 million for projects in alabama during the 2018 fiscal year. this funding is supporting the protection and enhancement of key nesting and foraging habitats for a wide variety of coastal birds within the bon secour national wildlife refuge and dauphin island. other projects seek to protect and restore fragile shorelines and coastal marshes along the western shore of mobile bay. florida nearly $24.5 million was awarded to projects in florida that address a number of high-priority restoration and conservation needs, including data collection for better conservation of red snapper and other reef fish, restoration of coastal dune lakes, protection of significant coastal wetlands, and additional capacity to address strandings of marine mammals. louisiana an award of $2.2 million brought the total amount of gebf investments in louisiana to more than $467 million and advanced engineering and design of the next barrier island restoration effort, which is headed for construction in late 2019. the lower terrebonne basin barrier island and beach nourishment construction project will be among the largest-scale work supported through the gebf in the coming year. engineering, design and environmental review for major sediment diversion projects along the mississippi river are underway to address the historic loss of coastal lands and marshes throughout southeastern louisiana. mississippi nfwf awarded more than $39.3 million for projects in mississippi, including the acquisition of more than 3,400 acres of wildlife habitats along the lower pascagoula river. another highlight was an award to expand the state’s successful program to beneficially use dredge materials to rebuild marsh and barrier island systems, providing new habitats for wildlife and increased protection from storms for human communities. texas nearly $47.8 million was awarded to a suite of projects in texas that led to the construction of breakwaters to protect delicate seagrass beds and marshes in galveston bay, restoration of 17 miles of beach and dunes, and the acquisition and permanent protection of a number of high-priority, undisturbed habitats along the coast.