 america asks a lot of its farmers and ranchers. not only must they feed the 330 million people who live in this country, but they also must run successful businesses and compete on a global scale. the nation’s agricultural producers have yet another challenge, one that most grocery store shoppers and restaurant diners might never consider. these private citizens serve as stewards of some of the most productive habitats for america’s wildlife. the native birds, fish, reptiles, amphibians, mammals and pollinators that live on or move across agricultural lands are a public resource. we all depend on our agricultural producers’ good stewardship of these lands and waters to help sustain our nation’s wildlife populations for current and future generations. those who produce america’s fruits, vegetables, grains, textiles, and meat and dairy products feel a close connection to the lands they work, the waters upon which they depend, and the wildlife they see every day. they also value productivity and successful business practices. fortunately, the pursuit of efficiency on working lands often goes hand-in-hand with conserving wildlife habitat, whether that is through the management of invasive species, more efficient irrigation and fertilization, or better stormwater management. this is where nfwf and its many conservation partners come in. the foundation excels at helping agricultural producers strengthen their operations and attain voluntary conservation goals that they, themselves, are eager to achieve. our grantees specialize in offering practical, site-specific guidance and innovative financial incentives for agricultural producers to make operational improvements that benefit wildlife and improve soil health and water quality — without endangering their bottom lines. to achieve this, nfwf builds partnerships that unite agricultural stakeholders, including major food and beverage corporations seeking advancements in sustainability, federal agencies such as the u.s. department of agriculture’s natural resources conservation service, nonprofit organizations such as margaret a. cargill philanthropies, conservation districts, commodity associations and, of course, individual farmers and ranchers across the country.