 the national fish and wildlife foundation works with some of our nation’s leading corporations to help advance their philanthropic missions and to generate lasting benefits for wildlife populations and human communities throughout our nation. our private-sector partnerships span multiple business sectors, including retail, technology, banking, agriculture and energy production. we also partner with other private nonprofits, including some of the largest and most influential philanthropic organizations in the world. the corporations and foundations that become our partners recognize the value of working with one of the nation’s most well-respected, transparent and cost-effective conservation organizations. they know that our grant-making process is driven by sound science, conservation business plans and measurable results. a partnership with nfwf offers the opportunity to support national-level conservation efforts, often joining partners at the highest levels of federal and state governments. our focus on measurable results helps partners report significant advancements toward corporate responsibility goals, and to share with their workforce a sense of pride over conservation investments and results. we manage conservation programs across the nation, offering partners the opportunity to boost the natural resources, quality of life and natural resilience of communities where their customers, employees and suppliers live and work. throughout 2020, we worked with partners striving to offset their current environmental impacts, whether that’s the number of acres converted to retail space, gallons of water used, or the amount of carbon released into the atmosphere. to quantify and report outcomes of our conservation investments, we monitored traditional metrics such as acres conserved and improvements to wildlife populations. we also helped our partners understand and document emerging, more complex metrics associated with carbon sequestration and water quality. in this way, these conservation investments not only benefit wildlife populations and human communities — they also prepare our nation’s leading corporations to meet the challenges of the future.