 in 2003, nfwf began a landmark initiative to evaluate the impacts of our conservation investments over the past two decades. our goals are straightforward: we want to learn what worked, what didn’t, and why. evaluation is a form of adaptive management that permits nfwf to continuously monitor and upgrade our programs. we are eager to share these lessons without partners within the conservation community, to improve everyone’s performance. this is an ideal moment to evaluate our investments. since 1986, the foundation has awarded more than 6,400 grants with a total value of more than $786 million.thousands of projects on the ground offer a rich lode of data to mine in order to learn more about effective conservation.in this first year of evaluation, we have barely scratched the surface, but we’ve learned enough to help improve our programs and increase their effectiveness. three major evaluation projects were funded in 2003. these evaluations involved surveys, interviews, and performance metrics in “meta-analyzing” nfwf-funded grants. here's a brief summary from each study. washington trout, a non-profit based in duvall, washington, assessed the impact of 60 grants for improving culverts on streams in nine western states. culverts permit fish to bypass obstacles that road building or other human activities often create, robbing fish, including chinook, coho, steelhead, cutthroat and bull trout, and other species, of hundreds of miles of prime habitat. washington trout assessed whether the nfwf-funded culvert projects were effective. by reviewing the documents of the 60 grants and interviewing the project sponsors, the investigators created statistics for measuring the “conservation benefit” of each fish passage project. their key findings include: these 60 projects resulted in opening more than 217 miles of fish habitat; technical problems involving installation played a big part in the relative costs and benefits accounted to each project; science is important to successful work in culverts, from assessing needs at the outset to assessing ecological impacts after projects end; projects with high conservation benefit addressed the needs of multiple species. funding projects in watersheds that are species-rich is cost-effective. hardner & gullison, llp, of california, evaluate the effectiveness of shell’s marine habitat program on conservation in the gulf of mexico. since 1998, nfwf partnership with shell has funded 79 projects (see p. 21); 39 were evaluated for the study. the evaluators first interviewed 135 grantees and stakeholders located in six regions in the southeast and then conducted an online survey of 653 stakeholders. this evaluation’s focus addressed whether the projects were improving the gulf 'coastal environment and whether grant monies were being used effectively. the evaluators conclude that: this program is showing strong “signaling”—drawing other donors to contribute. shell’s $4.1 million investment leveraged an additional $10 million from nfwf and our grantees; this program is bringing credibility to grantee projects, enhancing their opportunities to raise funds from other sources in addressing key priorities within the gulfof mexico; grantees consider nfwf effective and identified areas for future administrative improvement. the wildlife company of georgia and north woods consulting of ohio evaluated nfwf grants for research on forest management practices and their effect on nesting birds. the evaluators reviewed 11 multi-year projects selected on a number of distinct criteria. the evaluators assessed nine distinct objectives and their performance methods and core indicators through reviewing project files, conducting site visits, and interviewing key stakeholders. among the key findings were that nfwf: did an excellent job identifying priority research, supporting quality projects, involving diverse stakeholders, and stimulating more research through our funding; should work more closely with scientists to translate their results into practical guidance for land managers; must become more active in translating research into forest management practices. our aim should be to cut “lag time” between when research concludes, and when its results make their way to managers for practical application; should emphasize funding for projects that emphasize up-front collaboration between researchers and managers. evaluation allows us to broaden our benefit to the conservation community from 20 years of grantmaking. our evaluation efforts will guide future strategic decision-making in best using our investments to achieve long-term ecological impacts. readers interested in obtaining the full reports or learning more generally about evaluation activities at nfwf should contact matthew birnbaum, ph.d, in our national office.