 dear friends of the foundation, the theme for our 2004 annual report is “20/20 vision” — a celebration of our long service in conservation, as well as our view of the conservation world today and tomorrow. more than 20 years have passed since the u.s. congress created the national fish and wildlife foundation. we continue to work diligently to apply knowledge gained and lessons learned as we wisely invest in conservation that will affect the future of fish, wildlife and the habitat on which they depend. these natural resource treasures are a legacy that will benefit current and future generations. on the cover and inside of this annual report are a jaguar and a black-tailed prairie dog. they represent the foundation’s on-going journey to conserve wildlife and their habitats, and how the projects to protect them are all part of the bigger conservation picture. the first project supported by the foundation was to determine the status of endangered jaguars in south america, central america, mexico and the southwestern united states (see page 10 for more information). today, we continue to learn more about jaguars and their habitat needs as we work toward the ultimate goal — the removal of the big cat from the endangered species list. nearly 20 years later, we celebrate the black-tailed prairie dog as a real success story (see page 9 for more information). last year, the u.s. fish and wildlife service removed the black-tailed prairie dog as a candidate for listing under the endangered species act. we’re proud to report that the foundation has supported more than a dozen projects that have helped in its comeback. from jaguars to black-tailed prairie dogs, the foundation remains the nation’s champion of fish, wildlife and habitat conservation. in 2004, the foundation supported more than 700 conservation projects valued at $72.7 million. with these projects, the foundation continued to serve as a unique model for conservation programs, bringing together local, state and federal partners. each partner contributed to the process of leveraging our dollars three times. following are some totals for 2004 and the past 20 years: project elements fiscal year 2004 fiscal years 1984-2004 federal funds leveraged by the foundation $26.9 million $305.1 million corporate, foundation and individual contributions, and nonfederal and matching funds contributed by partners $45.8 million $613.7 million total investment $72.7 million $918.8 million acres managed, restored or acquired by federal and nonfederal partners 195,843 17.4 million in addition to these successes, we continue to strengthen long-time partnerships with corporate, federal, state and local agencies and international, national, regional and local nonprofit partners. we formed new ties with corporations, including bp america, mbna and nestlé purina. the foundation’s accomplishments have been made possible by visionary corporate, foundation and federal partners, a committed board, the foundation’s regional councils and committed staff. partnerships, leveraging, creativity and accountability are keys to our decades-old organization and will have long-lasting impacts on the fish, wildlife and habitats which we work to conserve. as the national fish and wildlife foundation moves into the next 20 years of conservation, we pledge to protect the vital fish, wildlife and habitats that will ensure sustainable wildlife populations for generations to come. with your continued confidence and support, we will act to address the nation’s most pressing conservation issues of our day — and we thank you.