 as the national fish and wildlife foundation (nfwf) begins its fourth decade of building conservation partnerships between government and private-sector partners, our impact has never been greater. this year, we surpassed 14,000 projects funded since our founding in 1984, and we surpassed $2.9 billion in total conservation impact. our accomplishments over the past year demonstrate that nfwf is leading the way in preserving and protecting our nation’s habitats and species. several significant endeavors from 2014 deserve special recognition. within the first 18 months of establishing the gulf environmental benefit fund, nfwf announced its initial project investments from the gulf fund, awarding over $290 million to 25 conservation projects in alabama, florida, louisiana, mississippi and texas. these projects continue to catalyze a regional recovery effort following the catastrophic 2010 deepwater horizon oil spill. the foundation also began implementation of the u.s. department of the interior’s hurricane sandy coastal resiliency competitive grant program. projects funded through this innovative program reduce communities’ vulnerability to growing risks from coastal storms, flooding and erosion by strengthening natural ecosystems that also benefit fish and wildlife — also known as resilience investing. on june 16, 2014, interior secretary sally jewell announced the award of 54 grants totaling almost $103 million. grantees committed more than $72 million in additional funding and in-kind contributions, bringing the total conservation investment to more than $175 million in coastal resilience. in fiscal year 2014, nfwf funded more than 800 conservation projects across the nation, obligating $166 million in federal funds and $3.4 million in other public funds, $23 million in private contributions, and leveraging $172 million in grantee match, including the hurricane sandy projects. in addition, including the gulf fund, the foundation awarded $304 million in impact-directed environmental accounts funds. in total, nfwf generated more than $668 million in on-the-ground conservation impact. nfwf also supported the launch of a new youth initiative at the department of the interior, the 21st century conservation service corps, to help develop the next generation of conservation stewards while also providing work experience to young adults. in addition to our support for the department of the interior, nfwf worked closely with the department of agriculture, as well as private landowners, to begin implementation of the new farm bill. passed in 2014, the legislation includes strong conservation measures for working farmers, ranchers and foresters that will enable economic growth while conserving natural habitats and protecting fish and wildlife for future generations. as we look to the future, nfwf will continue to lead the way in forming lasting partnerships that benefit local communities, habitats, wildlife and the nation as a whole. our vision remains as strong and vital as it was three decades ago, when the foundation was chartered by congress — to preserve and protect our nation’s natural treasures.