 as we look back on a successful year, the national fish and wildlife foundation’s (nfwf) board of directors, staff, grantee organizations, donors and many federal and corporate funding partners can be very proud of our collective conservation accomplishments. throughout 2017, nfwf’s innovative public-private partnerships supported numerous science-based conservation grant programs that generated measurable results for wildlife and people. nfwf funded more than 730 conservation projects across the nation, generating more than $693 million in conservation impact. the year’s strong performance pushed the foundation’s cumulative conservation impact to more than $4.8 billion since its founding in 1984. nfwf and its many partners complement and support the work of federal and state agencies charged with managing and conserving our nation’s incredible natural resources. these same programs also provide vital support to many of the country’s conservation organizations, including some of the largest as well as the smallest, so they can do what they do best: implement on-the-ground conservation. the benefits of our work can be seen throughout the united states. nfwf projects have opened up miles of habitat so that more pronghorn, elk and mule deer can complete epic migrations across the american west. fish such as brook trout, cutthroat trout and salmon live in higher-quality streams across the country. coastal and marine environments can better support an array of birds, sea turtles, fish, crustaceans and marine mammals. communities and businesses also reap the benefits of nfwf conservation investments. ranchers sustain their livelihoods by conserving the landscapes needed to raise cattle. farmers make more efficient use of their lands while protecting waterways from pollution. small businesses, schools and churches better control urban runoff in critical watersheds. and across the country, natural landscapes made stronger and healthier through nfwf grants provide greater resilience to catastrophic wildfires, hurricanes, droughts and floods. all of us at nfwf look forward to continuing this great work in 2018. we hope you enjoy learning about those efforts through the projects highlighted in this report.