 partners prepare for take-off birds know no boundaries. the foundation has recognized this fact by managing and supporting international programs and projects that have facilitated the conservation of migratory bird populations. since 1997, the neotropical migratory bird conservation program has helped conservation nonprofits to develop and expand their capacity to conduct successful conservation in latin america and the caribbean, particularly as related to local biodiversity concerns for migratory birds. as flyways are connected, so are some of the foundation’s programs. the partners in flight program is an international partnership of government agencies, nonprofits, universities and industry groups committed to the conservation of birds that migrate between north america, the caribbean and latin america. the goal of partners in flight is to ensure long-term conservation of migratory birds throughout their range. the neotropical migratory bird conservation program supports this objective by providing assistance to latin american and caribbean organizations to implement conservation priorities benefiting neotropical migratory birds, while also addressing local human needs. projects take flight projects have supported migratory bird conservation in latin america and the caribbean through population monitoring, habitat protection, professional training, environmental education for children and small enterprise development, such as ecotourism, to promote local conservation initiatives. following are examples of program results: environmental education and management work with communities and municipalities have promoted restoration and conservation of critical migratory bird habitat; a grantee has provided training for ornithologists in nicaragua to conduct monitoring activities to improve bird conservation and management in local protected areas; following a recommendation from a nongovernmental organization, guatemalan government agencies revised a reforestation program to include a modified ratio of native tree species that improved forest habitat for birds. the u.s. agency for international development has funded the neotropical migratory bird conservation program through two cooperative agreements. funding under the first agreement totaled more than $2.4 million over a five-year period. funding for $4 million under the final agreement began in 1997 and completes in 2005.