 the acres for america conservation program marked two historic milestones in 2015: surpassing 1 million acres of wildlife habitat protected and announcing a $35-million renewal to continue the program for the next 10 years. acres for america has become one of the most effective public-private collaborations in the history of u.s. conservation efforts by bringing together business leaders, landowners, public agencies and conservationists to protect the nation’s natural resources at a grand scale. “the need for effective public-private partnerships for conservation has never been greater,” said secretary of the interior sally jewell. “i applaud nfwf and walmart for their continued commitment through the successful acres for america program to preserve and protect some of our nation’s most important lands.” the program began in 2005, when walmart made an initial $35-million commitment to purchase and preserve one acre of wildlife habitat in the united states for every acre of land developed by the company — about 100,000 acres today. the program has far surpassed that 10-year goal, protecting an area 10 times larger. in fact, by conserving private lands that connect national forests, parks and other protected lands, the program has benefited wildlife habitats and migration corridors over an even larger area — more than 10 million acres. in fiscal year 2015, acres for america awarded grants that will protect more than 235,000 acres of forest, riparian and coastal habitats in alabama, california, florida, texas and washington. including these latest projects, the program has funded 61 projects in 33 states, the district of columbia and puerto rico. in addition to permanently protecting some of the country’s most important wildlife habitats, these projects have provided new public access to some of america’s most pristine natural areas, all the while ensuring that ranchers, farmers and foresters can continue to work their lands. acres for america’s incredible growth over the past decade has been powered in large part by nfwf’s ability to leverage walmart’s initial $35-million investment to generate more than $352 million in matching contributions. altogether, acres for america has generated a total conservation impact of more than $387 million. with the program renewal in 2015, walmart and nfwf are committed to doubling this success over the next decade.