 an overarching focus on species and habitats shapes the foundation’s grant-making. two additional focal areas – water quality and quantity, and engaging people in conservation – inform and support nfwf’s primary investments in species and habitats. the foundation seeks out opportunities to invest in the recovery of species suffering declines in populations. success with such species often benefits countless others, while also avoiding potential regulatory burdens. the foundation also funds efforts to preserve and enhance habitats with particularly high conservation value, including migratory bottlenecks or stepping stones, on public and private lands. in this way, nfwf has become one of the nation’s leaders in the restoration of wildlife and habitats on “working” lands, from the vast timber holdings of the southeast to the immense farms and ranches of the midwest, rocky mountains and west coast. the degradation, fragmentation and outright loss of natural habitats represent the top threats faced by native wildlife species in the united states. throughout 2016, nfwf grants protected and enhanced home ranges and migration routes for mule deer and elk in the rocky mountains, shorebirds along the atlantic flyway and gulf of mexico, salmon and trout throughout the west, rare forest birds in hawaii, and many other species in landscapes throughout the country. invasive species also take a heavy toll on native wildlife and cause billions of dollars in damage to the economy every year. throughout 2016, nfwf worked with government agencies, private landowners and local communities to manage harmful invasive species, including rodents threatening ground-nesting seabirds in hawaii, invasive fish in the streams and rivers of the american west, cheatgrass in the great plains, and non-native reeds choking out coastal ecosystems along the east coast. nfwf also works to bolster wildlife populations and restore habitats. in 2016, the foundation continued to fund massive efforts to stem the decline of monarch butterflies through the planting of milkweed across the insect’s migration route. other grants addressed light pollution that disrupts sea turtle nesting along the atlantic ocean and gulf of mexico, while still others helped scientists understand the relationship between salmon and endangered southern resident killer whales. in 2016, nfwf and the u.s. fish and wildlife service also laid the groundwork for a new program to support beleaguered bat populations being decimated by white-nose syndrome. through this sharp focus on species and habitats, nfwf ensures that its conservation funds support the nation’s most effective, on-the-ground conservation work.