 the national fish and wildlife foundation, our funding partners and our many grantee organizations have much to be proud of as we look back on a very successful 2016. throughout the year, nfwf proved again and again that effective, science-based conservation grant programs can make a remarkable and immediate difference for wildlife and people. in fiscal year 2016, nfwf funded more than 860 conservation projects across the nation and generated more than $353.8 million in on-the-ground conservation impact. these investments created and supported thousands of jobs and contributed tens of millions of dollars to local economies. in addition, the economic benefits and jobs related to conservation are largely rural, and by their nature cannot be exported from the united states. the foundation awarded $65.9 million in federal funds, $814,633 in other public funds and $32.8 million in private contributions. these investments drew more than $126.9 million in matching support from grantees. the foundation also awarded $127.4 million in impact-directed environmental account funds, including $100.6 million from the gulf environmental benefit fund. the year’s strong performance pushed the foundation’s cumulative conservation impact to more than $3.8 billion since its founding in 1984. across the country, nfwf-funded projects unfolded at every scale. entirely new barrier islands rose from the gulf of mexico. unimaginable volumes of water were conserved and reconnected to restore proper ecological functions in watersheds large and small. an army of private land owners acted to protect the natural treasures on their lands. some of the country’s most beautiful and productive natural areas were opened to public access. nfwf funding also supported focused efforts across the nation to address some of our most pressing conservation challenges. in wyoming, the removal of old fencing promised to clear the way for migrating mule deer. in hawaii, state-of-the-art fencing kept invasive species from wreaking havoc in nesting colonies of imperiled seabirds. in california, mountain forests were rebounding more quickly from devastating wildfires. in south carolina, longleaf pine forests gained new groups of endangered red-cockaded woodpeckers. in oregon, more salmon were able to complete their epic spawning runs. in florida, sea turtles set nesting records along beaches protected from light pollution. in the chesapeake bay, aquatic plants, oysters and blue crabs surged after decades of decline. in the great lakes, improved aquatic connectivity gave native fish a chance to complete their life cycles. and throughout the country, beleaguered monarch butterflies found new pockets of critical milkweed habitat along their migration routes between the united states and mexico. such successes clearly demonstrate that species and habitats can rebound and thrive when given the benefit of strong and decisive conservation leadership, critical funding support and the implementation of the very best conservation strategies on private and public lands. the foundation continues to advance the science and practice of conservation and fulfill its core mission: sustaining, restoring and enhancing the nation’s fish, wildlife, plants and habitats for current and future generations.