 throughout 2015, the national fish and wildlife foundation (nfwf) continued to achieve unprecedented conservation successes. for the first time since its founding in 1984, the foundation exceeded the $3-billion mark in cumulative conservation impact, reaching $3.5 billion by the end of fiscal year 2015. this new milestone speaks to the foundation’s strong growth in recent years — it took 21 years for nfwf to reach its first $1 billion in impact (2005), six years to reach its second billion (2011), but just four years to reach its third billion (2015). overall, in fiscal year 2015, nfwf funded more than 800 conservation projects across the nation. the foundation awarded $87.6 million in federal funds, $449,000 in other public funds and $38 million in private contributions, leveraged by $119.7 million in grantee match. the foundation also awarded $132.4 million in impact-directed environmental account funds, including those from the gulf environmental benefit fund. in total, nfwf generated more than $378.1 million in on-the-ground conservation impact in fiscal year 2015. the many programs launched or continued in 2015 demonstrate the strength and agility of the foundation. the new monarch butterfly conservation fund serves as a particularly good example of nfwf’s role as a fast-moving, focused and effective collaborator. launched in february, the fund provided a platform for nfwf and its conservation partners to quickly plan, build and implement a national program to address the causes of a dramatic decline in monarch butterfly numbers. just seven months after its launch, nfwf announced an initial grant slate of $3.3 million in investments, leveraged by matching funds into $10 million worth of projects to support the monarch butterfly throughout the country. acres for america, the foundation’s pioneering conservation partnership with walmart that began a decade ago, marked two important milestones in 2015: passing 1 million acres protected since its inception in 2005 and announcing a 10-year renewal of the program. ground-breaking efforts stretched across the nation in 2015, addressing an incredible array of species and habitats. nfwf’s conservation investments helped protect the majestic longleaf pine forests of the southeast, improve forest diversity in the northeast, restore wet meadows in the sierra nevada, and bolster watersheds of the great lakes and chesapeake bay. along the gulf of mexico, the foundation continued to support large, significant and meaningful projects to address the impacts of the tragic 2010 deepwater horizon oil spill. the foundation also created two new regional offices focused on the southern and rocky mountain regions, giving nfwf a total of five regional offices to better support local conservation efforts. in terms of financial and human resources brought to bear every day to solve complex conservation challenges, nfwf remains unmatched. as we look to the coming year, the foundation has never been in a stronger position to fulfill its core mission: sustaining, restoring and enhancing the nation’s fish, wildlife, plants and habitats for current and future generations.