 when bulldozers began to chip away at maine’s veazie dam in july 2013, conservation partners including nfwf celebrated a victory in river restoration. demolition of the 32-foot-tall structure on the penobscot river near bangor will help re-open more than 1,000 miles of free-flowing water for atlantic salmon, american shad, alewife and eight other species of native sea-run fish. the action removed an obstacle that thwarted fish migration for a century. to reproduce, sea-run fish must swim inland from the ocean to reach freshwater streams, where they spawn. dams blocking the river limit the number of fish that complete the journey. when veazie, the lowest dam on the penobscot, crumbled, it was a major advance in re-establishing fish populations including river herring, a focal species for nfwf since 2009. the project capped a strong collaborative effort among the penobscot river restoration trust, maine department of marine resources, federal and state agencies, local conservation groups and the penobscot indian nation, whose ancestral fishing grounds are now part of the restored passage. nfwf was a catalyst behind the effort, providing early funding for the creation of the trust and sustained support over 14 years, up until the veazie dam demolition. in terms of the habitat regained, the project is the largest river restoration project in the country and is expected to have a major impact on the health of fish populations in maine. laura rose day, director of the penobscot river restoration trust, reported that fish quickly took advantage of expanded access to spawning areas. “at the veazie fish trap, we saw as many fish in a day — more than 2,000 — as what had been seen in a whole year,” she said. scientists estimate that in coming years, millions more could pass through on their way to the lakes and streams of maine’s interior. before the demolition, the penobscot river restoration trust worked with a local energy company, black bear hydro, to support increased generation capacity at six other facilities in the river basin. investments in equipment will make sure energy generation stays at the same level as when the project began — a win for the ecosystem and local residents alike. “the word penobscot means rocky river, or place of ledges,” said day. “after the dam came down, our view of the river really did change. now, we can see that cobbled shoreline and the ledges.” and below the river’s surface, deep currents hold the promise of revival.