 water, running cool and clear in our nation’s rivers and streams, is a precious resource. our water supplies depend on its abundance and availability, as do our recreational opportunities to enjoy its bounty of trout, salmon, and a host of other species. yet, increasingly, cool and clear water is in short supply in our western rivers and streams. securing its continued availability for all uses is critical to the peaceful common use of water by many stakeholders. without nfwf’s persistent efforts to minimize sedimentation and erosion, preserve riparian habitats, clean up streams, and restore the species who live in them, the old song celebrating “cool, clear water” could too soon become only a memory. in 2003, we continued our grants in the columbia river basin, with two goals in mind: first, conserving fish and making possible their safe passage upstream through guaranteeing constant minimal flows and, in some cases, helping eliminate barriers; and second, ensuring that water flows continue to support power generation and well-managed agriculture. we are proud to report that we’ve begun a truly innovative water program that can become a model for sensible sharing of resources. the columbia basin water transactions program, managed by nfwf in partnership with the bonneville power administration in cooperation with the northwest power and conservation council, aims to find balance in the columbia river basin in restoring streamflows. as water shortages have affected more streams, values have clashed not just in the basin but across the west and across the country. what will solve the problem? we and our partners decided that a strictly regulatory approach to flow restoration would not work because of its inflexibility, even if the approach might help salmon, trout, steelhead, and other creatures. the ideal solution works from the ground up—involving local people in managing their own resources through volunteer efforts that negotiate to balance community values around water: fishing, agriculture, conservation, power generation. tools used by the columbia basin water transactions program to restore flows rely on innovation and thinking “outside the box.” efficiency can be improved in ditches, gates, and irrigation systems. other tools include evaluating the water source and sometimes changing its diversion point, or switching from surface to ground water sources. working with farmers to alter planting cycles has also reduced pressures. people, of course, must cooperate to create innovative solutions: in a rotation pool, a group of irrigators take turns leaving part of their water in streams. in a water bank, users in an irrigation district “bank” water they don’t need so it can be put to other uses like instream flows. a member of the tribal board of trustees of the confederated tribes of the umatilla indian reservation, a columbia river basin project participant, locates the source of innovation in their working partnership to plan “for the next seven generations” by combining known techniques in new ways. “none of us is leaving, so it’s best to work as partners to solve the issues we face as a region. we’re going after strategies that support both fisheries and agriculture.” innovation in stakeholder partnerships is helping the foundation to guarantee that “cool, clear water” will still be flowing for that seventh generation of americans.