 private landowners nfwf plays a leading role in engaging private landowners, who control approximately 60 percent of the land within the united states, and coordinating conservation work across the full spectrum of land ownership. many 2018 grants funded conservation easements that compensated landowners for voluntarily giving up future development rights, easing financial pressures to subdivide land and convert natural landscapes. other investments helped owners upgrade properties in ways beneficial to wildlife, including retrofitting beachfront properties in florida with turtle-safe lighting, installing electrified fencing to avoid bear conflicts in the northern rockies, and planting pollinator gardens throughout the midwest. volunteers and stewards nfwf-supported projects engaged people in conservation and created volunteer opportunities in cities, suburbs, parks and national wildlife refuges across the nation. volunteers built artificial homes for burrowing owls in arizona, reduced wildfire fuels in the forests of california and removed invasive vegetation in forest preserves near chicago. others collected milkweed seeds for butterflies in minnesota, protected coral reefs in hawaii and watched over critical nesting sites for birds along florida’s beaches. just one of nfwf’s conservation initiatives, the five star and urban waters program, awarded $2.2 million in 2018 to 59 projects in urban areas throughout country. farmers, ranchers and timberland owners nfwf grants enabled farmers and ranchers across the country to irrigate and fertilize more efficiently, boosting bottom lines and improving water quality. in the northern great plains, nfwf helped ranchers improve habitats for sage grouse and modify fencing to ease migrations of pronghorn and mule deer. in the chesapeake bay watershed, nfwf grants funded projects that captured runoff from parking lots and kept dairy cows from degrading streams in pennsylvania. still other grants allowed timber-holding families and companies to conserve forests of longleaf and shortleaf pine for future generations. future conservation leaders many of the projects funded by nfwf focused in large part on engaging young people in conservation. such projects put more boots on the ground for wildlife while building support for future conservation work. nfwf grants funded youth corps opportunities, internships and jobs for college students, recent graduates and atrisk high-schoolers from urban areas. some grants supported the construction of habitats for birds and pollinators at elementary schools, while others created opportunities for young people to visit or volunteer in national forests and refuges. students planted trees in new mexico and oregon, enhanced grasslands on reservations in south dakota and tended an urban forest in atlanta. students worked to keep trash out of the bronx river in new york city and sedimentation from reaching coral reefs in hawaii.