 throughout 2018, nfwf continued to make landscape-scale investments that sustained and enhanced wildlife populations across the nation. in california, montana and minnesota, nfwf grants supported the purchase of lands and easements benefiting elk, moose, canada lynx and wolverines. in montana and wyoming, grantees modified fencing so that pronghorn and mule deer could complete epic migrations. another project in the northern rockies continued to prevent conflicts between people and bears. in washington state, yet another grant paved the way for a highway underpass that will reduce the number of collisions between vehicles and wildlife. shorebirds and seabirds nfwf invested in a variety of strategies last year to enhance populations of shorebirds and seabirds. many grants awarded by the foundation focused on protecting breeding colonies of birds from predators and human disturbances. on-the-ground work by nfwf grantees benefited iconic birds across the nation, including petrels in hawaii, albatrosses on midway atoll, shearwaters in california, reddish egrets in texas, and plovers and sandpipers in florida. freshwater fish and amphibians eastern brook trout, hellbenders, darters, shiners and freshwater mussels found from new england through southern appalachia benefited from nfwf’s 2018 grant-making. in western states, nfwf awarded millions of dollars to projects that conserved water and enhanced freshwater habitats for culturally and ecologically important species such as cutthroat trout and chinook salmon, as well as for lesser-known and highly at-risk species such as the pecos pupfish. marine life for more than three decades, nfwf has provided funding and focused leadership for sea turtle conservation. in 2018, grants along the atlantic and gulf coasts of florida reduced hatchling disorientation caused by light pollution. nfwf grants also increased the capacity of nonprofit groups and researchers to respond to stranded sea turtles all along the nation’s coastlines. other marine focal species for nfwf investments included corals, endangered killer whales and commercially important fish such as red snapper and bluefin tuna. species in crisis butterflies, moths, bees and other pollinators vital to u.s. food production continue to suffer drastic population declines. nfwf and its partners worked to reverse those declines by funding the enhancement of pollinator habitats on farms and in schools and rights-of-way. nfwf also invested heavily in the preservation of grassland habitats for sage grouse and longleaf pine forests for red-cockaded woodpeckers and gopher tortoises. another new conservation program advanced innovative efforts to help protect the nation’s population of bats from the spread of white-nose syndrome.