 the united states encompasses 2.32 billion acres of land, about 36 percent of which is publicly owned, and nearly 200 million acres of surface water. these lands and waters are home to more than 2,500 species of mammals, fish, reptiles, birds and amphibians, as well as approximately 100,000 species of insects. a full accounting of our nation’s natural resources would also include the rich sea life of marine environments off our shores, an unimaginably vast area holding a diversity of life not yet fully understood. the wildlife living in or moving through these environments represent both a shared resource and a shared responsibility of the people of the united states. we depend on our government agencies and elected officials to safeguard these resources through the use of sound science and a balanced approach to energy production, timber operations, commercial fishing, livestock grazing and other uses. these dedicated public servants have an enormous job on their hands. the national fish and wildlife foundation was created more than 35 years ago to raise private-sector funds and provide support for federal efforts to conserve native wildlife and natural habitats. in 2020, we worked harder than ever to advance that mission. through public-private partnerships and our science-driven competitive grant programs, we continued to raise and invest resources that closed gaps in federal conservation funding. by leveraging contributions from grantees and private partners, we generated a return on public conservation funding at an average ratio of three to one. throughout 2020, nfwf supported strategic projects on private lands that boosted the effectiveness of conservation efforts on federal lands. at the request of federal partners, we moved quickly to address immediate conservation needs and respond to emergencies. we helped drive innovation and the adoption of best management practices in our nation’s agricultural sector. we also supported growing efforts by our public partners to make our nation more resilient to climate change and its growing effects, including more intense droughts, floods, wildfires and hurricanes.