 attending to native aquatic species in 1991, the foundation began working in cooperation with a number of conservation organizations to “bring back the natives.” as part of this aptly titled initiative, the foundation, u.s. fish and wildlife service, bureau of land management, u.s. department of agriculture’s forest service, bureau of reclamation and trout unlimited have distributed nearly $32.9 million in grants to nonprofit organizations, universities, american indian tribes and local, state and federal agencies interested in restoring native populations of sensitive or listed aquatic species. the initiative has supported 245 projects and benefited more than 120 species, 29 of which are federally listed as threatened or endangered. on-the-ground efforts the initiative funds on-the-ground actions that involve partnerships between communities, agencies, private landowners and organizations which seek to rehabilitate streamside and watershed habitats. projects focus on the habitat needs of species such as fish, invertebrates and amphibians that originally inhabited the waterways across the country. special emphasis is placed on cutthroat trout restoration, particularly projects that work to protect or re-establish migration corridors between breeding populations such as lahontan cutthroat trout and yellowstone cutthroat trout. other eligible species include bull trout, redband trout, apache trout, steelhead trout, desert pupfish, pacific tree frog and several species of salamanders and salmon that affect the health of aquatic communities. the foundation also gives preference to projects that work to keep sensitive or declining species off the endangered species list or address listed species that have a chance for recovery and delisting within five to 10 years. fish tales within five years of the program’s launch, the initiative funded a number of projects nationwide, including: development of a management plan for spawning and rearing techniques of duskytail and longnose darters for a captive breeding program in arkansas; construction of a barrier needed to prevent the migration of invasive species into the pure population of cutthroat trout in colorado; restoration of arctic grayling spawning, rearing and wintering habitat in montana’s steel creek. today, the foundation continues to evaluate potential efforts to bring back the natives. examples of conservation projects in 2004 included: development of a grassroots program that works with the oregon department of fish and wildlife to establish a volunteer-based monitoring program; initiation of coaster brook trout restoration projects on nine streams in the lake superior basin and conducting lake-wide assessment and communication activities.