 in april 2017, the federal district court for the southern district of florida entered a judgment against princess cruise lines for violations of the federal act to prevent pollution from ships. the judgment resulted from charges that princess cruise lines illegally discharged oil-contaminated bilge waste from various cruise ships into the marine waters of the united states. as part of the judgment, princess cruise lines was required to pay a community service payment totaling $7 million to nfwf to be used for projects and initiatives benefiting the maritime environment and marine and coastal natural resources in the united states. working in consultation with the u.s. fish and wildlife service, noaa, and the florida fish and wildlife conservation commission, our idea department has awarded the funds to a large portfolio of projects benefiting coral reefs, sea turtles and marine mammals, as well as numerous projects aimed at remedying marine pollution. awards made in fiscal year 2020 included the following: • $60,000 to the papahānaumokuākea marine debris project for a project to remove debris and pollution from the papahānaumokuākea marine national monument in hawaii. the project will benefit protected species and coral reefs by removing an estimated 240,000 pounds of derelict fishing gear and plastics in order to restore 1,300 acres of coral reef habitat and 400 acres of shoreline. • $400,000 to the port of friday harbor, washington, for a project to prevent pollution to its marine waters and habitats. the project will construct a waterfront marine spill response facility and also purchase a pumpout eco-barge, which will allow the port to quickly respond to oil spills and mitigate impacts of harmful contaminants to species such as killer whales, minke whales, harbor seals, sea lions, river otters, eagles and aukletes. • $40,000 to the puerto rico department of natural and environmental resources for a project to benefit marine mammals. the project will train personnel in the most current techniques and protocols for effective response to different types of marine mammal stranding events, and also improve the ability to conduct scientific analysis to increase understanding of marine mammal health in caribbean waters. • $115,680 to the college of william and mary, virginia institute of marine science, for a project to remove derelict fishing gear from the coastal waters of maryland and virginia. the project will remove derelict blue crab traps from areas of high commercial crabbing activity in order to reduce unintended bycatch mortality, which will both improve marine habitat and ultimately increase subsequent blue crab harvest for commercial crabbers.