 it’s been a whirlwind year for the monarch butterfly. in early 2015, media outlets across the united states and mexico delivered alarming news from scientific studies: the north american monarch population had plunged 94 percent, from 1 billion to fewer than 60 million, due primarily to loss of critical habitats containing milkweed, the food source for the monarch caterpillar. speculation on the iconic insect’s potential demise shocked those who every year welcome the beloved, orange-and-black visitor as a familiar and beautiful connection to the natural world. in the spring of 2015, nfwf and one of its largest federal partners, the u.s. fish and wildlife service, developed a bold plan to quickly address the causes of the insect’s decline. the federal agency committed $1.2 million in 2015 so that nfwf could create the monarch butterfly conservation fund and begin guiding conservation investments across the insect’s u.s. range. through a variety of private- and public-sector partners, including monsanto, nfwf quickly leveraged this initial commitment and more than doubled the funding immediately available. working with monarch experts, the foundation then launched a competitive grant program to increase vital monarch habitat. by early fall — just seven months after announcing the launch of the fund — nfwf had received 115 proposals and awarded $3.3 million in grants to 22 of the most promising projects, in the process drawing another $6.7 million in matching contributions for a total conservation impact of $10 million in its first year. many of these projects are now underway, led by a diverse group of grantees that includes universities, conservation organizations, agricultural groups and government agencies. projects address three key strategies: habitat restoration, coordination and capacity building, and bolstering the supply and distribution of native milkweed seeds and nectar-producing plants. already, the program has garnered the support of wildlife agencies, conservation groups and corporate partners across the country. the conservation effort also has captured the attention of countless adults and children who want to play some part in saving the butterfly. “there are few organisms that are as approachable as monarch butterflies,” said dr. chip taylor, a monarch expert with the university of kansas, which was awarded a grant to help native american tribes restore monarch habitats on tribal lands in oklahoma. “kids can watch these caterpillars grow out in their yards. they see this beautiful chrysalis form, and eventually, a butterfly emerges. this is a kind of access we don’t have with most other organisms. that’s part of the magic. “this insect, with its fascinating life history, connects people with nature.”