 green infrastructure innovative projects in cities across the country deployed green infrastructure such as bioswales, living shorelines, rain gardens and permeable pavement to reduce the amount of nutrients and sediments entering freshwater flows. such improvements also protected and cleansed water enjoyed by people across the country. enormous gains in water quality and quantity can be realized through the modernization of infrastructure such as culverts, drains and agricultural irrigation systems. willing landowners effective water conservation projects would not be possible without the voluntary cooperation of farmers, ranchers and private property owners. grants awarded last year provided tools and resources for these private landowners to become better stewards of the natural habitats under their care while at the same time improving business practices. grants in western states, where water scarcity is a challenge, paid for the acquisition of precious water rights from willing sellers to boost in-stream flow for fish. grants in other parts of the country, where too much water can be a problem, addressed pollution from runoff and flooding. watershed habitats the overall health of aquatic and terrestrial habitats directly affects the quality of fresh water. projects supported in 2018 removed invasive plants, stabilized stream banks and controlled erosion throughout the chesapeake bay watershed. the restoration of marshes in the great lakes region provided a natural means to filter excess nutrients from farms. restoration of woodlands bordering streams in the columbia basin provided shade, lowered water temperatures and elevated oxygen levels for fish. in california, the addition of large woody debris and new side channels on the klamath river slowed down the flow of water and provided refuge for trout and salmon. high in the sierra nevada, restored wet meadows recharged groundwater in a region prone to drought. and in washington, one grantee even trapped nuisance beavers and relocated them to remote river basins, where their dams would improve habitats for salmon and trout. aquatic connectivity human activity has interrupted the natural flow of fresh water, often to the detriment of both wildlife and communities. nfwf investments throughout new england and appalachia removed or improved culverts, dams and other barriers that have kept brook trout and river herring from historic spawning grounds. a fish elevator in the midwest allowed lake sturgeon to safely pass hydroelectric dams. massive efforts continued along the gulf of mexico to reconnect freshwater flows to coastal marshes, revitalizing those systems and stemming the large-scale loss of coastal lands. metrics for success nfwf worked with industry experts throughout 2018 to improve and standardize methods to measure the results of water conservation projects, both in terms of water quality and water quantity. these advancements ensure that funding flows to projects that generate lasting, real-world results.