 as the national fish and wildlife foundation ends 2005 and looks towards 2006, we are proud to be part of making conservation solutions work. in 2005, the foundation passed a major milestone–the investment of $1 billion in funding for on-the-ground conservation since congress established the foundation in 1984. this investment has resulted in nearly 8,200 grants, reaching all 50 states and more than 50 nations around the world. this accomplishment was possible because of our exceptional partners in stewardship -- more than 20 state and federal agencies, corporations, foundations, nonprofit and volunteer organizations, associations of landowners and individuals. public agencies, including the u.s. fish and wildlife service and national oceanic and atmospheric administration, provided a third of these funds; each public dollar was then leveraged at least 2:1 with private funding and matching funds raised by grantees. this year the foundation also celebrated the first year of a ten-year, $35 million partnership with wal-mart stores–the largest corporate partnership in our history. in 2005 the acres for america program launched with the announcement of five grant awards totaling $8.8 million and conserving 320,000 acres. we have an amazing start and are ready to build upon it. as we look back upon our success, we also understand that the conservation needs in the world are ever-increasing. we are presently faced with many complexities and challenges and limited resources for conservation. at the foundation, we are focused on identifying the highest conservation priorities and then creating partnerships to help implement solutions. this model continues to provide success. but as we start the new year, we are striving to always improve our grant-making, partnership skills and conservation outcomes. we are proud of our nation’s outdoorsmen and women, our conservation professionals, educators, scientists, landowners and volunteers, and we appreciate their willingness to lead in many areas of conservation. together we will protect and restore healthy, richer and more abundant populations of fish, wildlife and plants for future generations.