 nfwf’s conservation investments benefiting species and habitats often build upon and depend on advancements in another focal area: water quality and quantity. the benefits of healthy watersheds are clear and compelling for fish and other aquatic species. the stabilization and increase in native fish populations depends in large part on the protection of freshwater flows and the management of runoff from urban and agricultural areas. water quality and quantity also directly affect the overall health of forests, the productivity of marine environments, the resilience of coastal ecosystems, and the quality of life of countless communities across the country. the intensifying need to conserve and enhance water resources has risen to the forefront of national conservation efforts. throughout 2016, nfwf grants have strengthened water-related initiatives being undertaken by some of the country’s leading conservation nonprofits and government agencies. by the close of the fiscal year, nfwf had awarded $67 million in grants that specifically addressed the need to improve water quality and quantity. nfwf investments have helped restore and enhance freshwater habitats for eastern brook trout in new england and throughout the appalachian mountains. in the pacific northwest and alaska, nfwf has supported efforts to increase populations of coho, chum and chinook salmon, and to protect spawning runs that send a pulse of life inland to the benefit of wildlife and local economies. in hawaii, florida and along the gulf of mexico, nfwf supported efforts to improve the health of coral reefs, oyster beds and salt marshes that fuel productive marine ecosystems and fisheries. in the west, nfwf’s investments have benefited unique desert lake systems and restored the vital water-storage role of alpine wet meadows. throughout 2016, nfwf also continued to make unparalleled investments within the nation’s largest and most populous watersheds, including those of the mississippi river, great lakes, chesapeake bay and delaware bay. nfwf and its partners worked directly with farmers, other private landowners and local government leaders to reduce the flow of excess nutrients and untreated urban runoff into streams, wetlands, rivers and lakes. the foundation’s investments in water quality and quantity continue to benefit thousands of native species of fish, crustaceans, amphibians, birds, mammals and insects – and countless communities across the country.