 chartered by congress in 1984, the national fish and wildlife foundation remains true to its mission: to build partnerships between the public and private sectors to support conservation across the nation. since our founding, we’ve supported more than 12,600 projects to protect and restore america’s species and habitats. we’re proud of this record of achievement. but as we celebrate our 30th anniversary in 2014, we look to a future that holds even more promise. in the past year, nfwf launched the gulf environmental benefit fund, issuing the first awards of more than $112 million to 22 projects in alabama, florida, louisiana, mississippi and texas. as these actions made headlines, we continued our work in all 50 states, supporting 537 projects from the chesapeake bay to the great lakes, the northern plains and the southwest. with additional awards of more than $49 million in federal funds and $147 million in private contributions and grantee matching funds, nfwf leveraged a total of $197 million for conservation. and we continued to add to our list of partners, from corporations and foundations to local, state and federal governments. the economic benefits of conservation are all too often unrecognized, but they are substantial. a recent report estimated that direct and indirect investments in natural resource conservation contribute $93 billion each year to the u.s. economy, and support over 660,000 jobs. nfwf’s work supports long-term and sustainable economic growth for local communities, which is vital as we face the challenges of the 21st century. as our generation, our children and our grandchildren spend more time in cyberspace, it has never been more important to nurture a love and respect of the natural world. too many of our citizens have little or no connection to the outdoors. as nfwf continues to make a difference, one project at a time, we must also find new and innovative ways to share our appreciation for nature and our responsibility to preserve and protect our greatest inheritance.