 to the casual observer, it may seem that most conservation projects focus on national forests, state parks and other large swaths of public land. but many of the country’s most important conservation efforts actually unfold far from the public eye, on private property that makes up two-thirds of the land in the united states. in 2014, nfwf continued its work with a broad coalition of corporate funding partners, conservation organizations and other groups to help private landowners across the country achieve large-scale and lasting conservation outcomes … all while keeping their working lands working. new conservation easements protected large tracts of open land from fragmentation and conversion to non-agricultural uses. development and implementation of best management practices boosted productivity of working lands while preserving the mosaic of habitats required by resident and migrating wildlife. effective management of water resources helped ensure the survival of not just plants and animals, but also large and small businesses across the country. with nfwf support, timber companies in the piney woods of the southeast improved logging operations while still maintaining healthy forests and protecting imperiled species. crop farmers in the midwest improved their yields and decreased nutrient loads in local watersheds while still providing habitats for native pollinators. cattle ranchers in the northern great plains — one of the world’s last remaining intact grasslands — strove to boost sustainable beef production while still preserving critical habitat for grassland birds. montana rancher jim stone, founder of the partners for conservation group, knows that if private property owners take care of the land, it will take care of them, their families and their businesses. with nfwf support, stone and his group continued working in 2014 to help private landowners and partners implement innovative, measurable and effective conservation practices for the long-term health and productivity of working landscapes and rural communities across the united states. “doing the right thing for the environment doesn’t necessarily mean taking a hit on your bottom line,” stone says. “being a good steward of land and water resources goes handin- hand with being a good rancher and a smart business owner. when it comes right down to it, what’s good for the land is good for the livestock, good for birds and wildlife, good for people, and good for business.”