 in 2014, nfwf joined with the texas parks and wildlife department, the nature conservancy, the conservation fund and other partners to announce a stunning conservation achievement — the acquisition of the powderhorn ranch, a 17,351-acre ecological treasure on the texas coast. the ranch includes more than 11 miles of tidal bay front that provide important nursery habitat for shrimp, crabs and fish. thousands of acres of tidal marshes, bayous and freshwater potholes support a variety of waterfowl and wading birds, including the endangered whooping crane. quail, raptors and a range of big-game species inhabit the interior of the ranch, while a relatively mature live-oak forest along the banks of matagorda bay provides critical “fall-out” habitat for untold numbers of migratory songbirds crossing the gulf of mexico each spring. “it’s one of those last fabled ranches on the coast, and one of mother nature’s finest creations, as far as i’m concerned,” says carter smith, executive director of the texas parks and wildlife department. “within its confines, you get all the representative habitats and communities, both plant and animal, which reflect the entirety of that coastal landscape. in smaller, fragmented, isolated parcels, you don’t see that.” the property, which was in danger of being developed, now adds to a mosaic of protected coastal lands between galveston and corpus christi that includes the aransas national wildlife refuge and matagorda island wildlife management area. nfwf is providing $34.5 million over three years through the gulf environmental benefit fund (gebf) for the acquisition of the ranch, which eventually will be operated as a state park and wildlife management area. the texas parks and wildlife foundation has committed to raise matching funds to complete the $50 million project, which includes habitat restoration and a long-term stewardship endowment. in 2013, a u.s. district court approved two plea agreements resolving certain criminal charges against bp and transocean which arose from the 2010 deepwater horizon explosion and oil spill. the agreements direct a total of $2.544 billion to nfwf to fund projects benefiting the natural resources of the gulf coast that were impacted by the spill. empowered by the gebf and other funding sources related to the oil spill, conservation communities in texas and four other gulf coast states already have begun tackling oncein- a-lifetime conservation projects to protect, enhance and sustain some of the nation’s most important coastal ecosystems. “you can be more far-sighted, take some risks and realize some dreams you never otherwise would,” smith says.