 business plans nfwf invests conservation dollars into projects that generate measurable results. by formulating detailed business plans to guide its grant-making, the foundation ensures that the work it funds remains sharply focused on specific, achievable goals. nfwf business plans address conservation needs, expected outcomes, geographic focus, implementation, monitoring and evaluation. in 2018, the foundation added two new guiding documents to its suite of about two dozen active business plans: longleaf forest and rivers, and southwest rivers. conservation business plans developed by the foundation can be found under the “results” tab at nfwf.org. metrics nfwf’s scientists and conservation professionals worked with experts throughout the nation to set and monitor metrics that accurately gauge the effectiveness of on-the-ground work. metrics monitored through the foundation’s business plans often build on existing data related to focal species and habitats, from increases in populations to acreage restored, pounds of sediment blocked from streams and the number of volunteers engaged. the foundation also funded innovative work to develop standardized metrics for gauging the success of water conservation projects, including quantifiable improvements to both the amount and quality of fresh water. applied science through grant-making, contracted work and collaboration, nfwf worked closely with the nation’s leading conservation researchers to make sure resources flow to the places and projects where they will do the most good. one nfwf grantee worked to develop standardized monitoring protocols for populations of monarch butterflies. another completed a species-wide census of american oystercatchers along the atlantic flyway that confirmed a population increase of 23 percent over 10 years. another project produced data from radio-collared wolverines that will be used to identify the best sites for future roadcrossing structures. nfwf also supported studies by federal researchers that showed promising results from using ultraviolet light to fight white-nose syndrome in bat colonies. internal and external review progress reported by grantees is evaluated by a combination of nfwf staff and independent third parties. through such rigorous review of metrics and on-the-ground results, nfwf serves a leading role to encourage the adoption of the most effective and innovative conservation practices. adaptive management nfwf’s conservation programs are designed and implemented to incorporate adaptive management. detailed reporting mechanisms and close coordination with grantees ensure that work in the field progresses in the most efficient and effective manner, and that projects remain tightly focused on outcomes.