 theodore roosevelt understood, as we at the national fish and wildlife foundation (nfwf) do, that sound stewardship of one’s homeland is one of the highest callings of citizenship. his words resonate even more today than at the beginning of the last century, when he energized america’s passion for conservation. now, as then, the vanguard of conservation is led by those who hunt, fish, and care passionately about conserving our rich natural legacy. as the national fish and wildlife foundation enters its 20th anniversary year, we are proud of our role in advancing conservation. nfwf, in 2003, made more than 687 new grants to 530 organizations, bringing our 20-year total to 6,469 grants and 2,051 organizations. we’re pushing ahead with sharper measures to evaluate what we do, and we continue to leverage our grants, by matching federal dollars two-, three-, and fourfold with contributions from our many wonderful partners. we could not succeed without these superb partners in stewardship—all levels of government, corporations, nonprofit and voluntary organizations, associations of landowners and individuals. this year, we take special note of the contributions made by the estimated 38 million americans who enjoy fishing and hunting. sportsmen and women do more than relish their recreation on field and stream. each year, they contribute hundreds of millions of dollars to conservation through license fees, excise taxes, duck stamps, and volunteer work. one study calculated that the fishing and hunting community contributes $54 per second to conservation. sportsmen’s and women’s fees support 65 percent of all state fish and wildlife agency budgets, a front-line protection for habitat and species in our common effort to conserve resources. make no mistake, wildlife resources urgently need our help. habitat loss, increased competition by invasive species, and insufficient cold, clear water for fish are a few of the significant challenges before us. the foundation and our many partners are working with foresight to restore abundance: in waters; farms and rangeland; fisheries, forests, and fields. we are honored to be involved in the great enterprise of conserving our nation’s wildlife, while protecting the lands and waters they depend upon. we hope you will support us!