 attacking the root cause of conservation problems is a national fish and wildlife foundation hallmark. for many freshwater fish, the greatest challenge to survival is adequate water flow in the streams and rivers where they live. managing flows becomes more complicated when waterways cross public and private lands that are governed by different needs and laws. in the pacific northwest, where concern for anadromous fish such as salmon is acute, nfwf has launched a pilot program that is engaging private landowners to help solve streamflow issues. the result is a measurable increase in flow. fish get water, landowners receive income, and the environment benefits. it’s a triumph of cooperation over conflict, with a healthy dose of open-market thinking to incentivize willing landowners. five years ago, nfwf and the bonneville power administration created the columbia basin water transactions program (cbwtp) to support innovative, grassroots strategies for acquiring water rights and improving in-stream flows in columbia basin streams and rivers. the program has invested approximately $14.5 million through partners to negotiate transactions with private landowners to increase streamflow. the four state water regulatory agencies in the columbia basin are partners in this effort—uniting some of the most important stakeholders in the voluntary water transaction market. this funding has enabled partners to use innovative transaction tools, such as short-term leases, partial season leases, irrigation efficiency projects, and complete transfers of water rights. to date, more than 150 open-market transactions have been completed. although reaching established flow targets and habitat restoration goals will require additional time and the concerted efforts of all stakeholders, significant progress has been made on a number of key streams. with nfwf’s support, increased flow targets have been fully achieved on 20% of streams where transactions have occurred. on another 40% of priority streams, partners have restored between one-half to three-quarters of what is needed to meet established biological flow targets. nfwf is now looking at new opportunities to replicate this model with its commitment to partnerships, measurable outcomes, and ongoing progress evaluation.