 in 2003, the national fish and wildlife foundation sought to improve wildlife habitat by assisting private landowners in restoring wetlands. restoration allows farmers to protect and enhance their land while it remains part of a working landscape. this integration of economic and ecological sustainability offers conservationists a better chance to protect our natural heritage. our work with the texas rice industry coalition for the environment (rice) is an excellent example of this work. dips in rice prices, combined with development pressures, have forced some rice farmers out of business; prime agricultural land—and important habitat—is left fallow, or lost entirely. funds from nfwf have allowed rice participants to enhance 6,340 acres of wetlands by flooding fallow rice fields or planting them to native prairie. improving these acres offers not just habitat, but also an alternative income for farmers, who can lease the land for grazing or hunting.texas rice has produced both ecologically and economically. the program has greatly extended habitat for waterfowl, but the fields also yield extremely high-quality cattle fodder. further, with close collaboration between landowners and federal agencies, rice has leveraged nfwf’s contribution 4, 5, and even 6 to 1. the program is a perfect collaboration between humans and nature: people are able to keep their land and earn a living, while also conserving critical habitat. similarly, in illinois, the openlands project works with farmers, natural resource agencies, and others to create a watershed management plan for midewin national tallgrass prairie. midewin is the largest tallgrass prairie restoration ever undertaken. despite its impressive size, openlands recognizes that midewin cannot be protected as a jurisdictional island—without reaching beyond the property line, the tallgrass prairie and wetlands of midewin cannot be restored. together, openlands, farmers, federal agencies, and other partners are creating a watershed plan that will guide development and promote wetland restoration. through cost-sharing programs, the project will help farmers to reduce soil erosion and promote habitat restoration. another example of nfwf’s comprehensive approach to conservation, the openlands project underscores the role of private landowners as good stewards of our streams and wetlands.