 the consumer goods we buy, the dwellings we inhabit, the energy we use, the food we eat — virtually everything we do has some impact on our natural environment. understanding and mitigating the negative effects of our modern world represents one of the greatest challenges of our time. here in the united states, we are fortunate that our fish, wildlife, plants and other natural resources are protected from harmful conduct by a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations. these measures ensure that the impacts of human activities on natural resources are avoided, minimized, offset or mitigated, to the benefit of current and future generations. for more than 20 years, nfwf’s impact-directed environmental accounts (idea) department has worked to support the work of federal, state and local governmental agencies charged with the responsibility of enforcing and implementing these laws and regulations. when a governmental authority determines that a violation of an environmental law has occurred, an enforcement action against the responsible party often results. in some cases, the resolution of that enforcement action includes a requirement that the responsible party pay environmental benefit funds to finance projects and activities that will restore or otherwise benefit the impacted natural resources. nfwf has developed an expertise in the administration of these funds in ways that maximize their environmental benefit, deliver meaningful value to impacted resources and communities, and provide accountability and transparency to stakeholders. the foundation’s idea department also works to support the efforts of governmental agencies that issue permits authorizing activities (such as infrastructure and development projects) that impact fish, wildlife, plants and other natural resources. these permits, issued under laws such as the endangered species act and clean water act, require that such impacts are mitigated or offset in order to make impacted natural resources whole again. nfwf works closely with permitting agencies to help implement mitigation strategies efficiently and effectively for the benefit of our nation’s fish, wildlife and other natural resources.