 pummeled by storms and facing increasing threats from sea-level rise, small towns, big cities and state and federal agencies along the east coast have rallied behind the need for greater coastal resiliency. most community planners and leaders now recognize that restoring and protecting marshes, barrier islands and other coastal habitats isn’t just an ecological imperative — these dwindling natural landscapes also help shield people and property from the worst mother nature has to offer. hurricane sandy drove home the point in october 2012, devastating much of the northeast and causing billions of dollars in damage. without natural systems such as living shorelines, marshes and protected lands to soak up the fury and flooding of storms, urban coastlines suffered catastrophic damage. in 2014, the u.s. department of the interior and nfwf announced the award of 54 grants totaling nearly $103 million. these funds are being used to strengthen natural ecosystems in order to protect communities and reduce their vulnerability to future storm events, and to enhance habitats critical to fish and wildlife. the hurricane sandy coastal resiliency competitive grant program also generated more than $72 million in additional funding and in-kind contributions, bringing the total conservation investment to more than $175 million. “it’s all part of the framework that’s coming out of the sandy recovery effort, this emphasis on sustainability, on green versus gray infrastructure,” says scott smith, senior design and construction project manager for the city of norfolk, va. city officials there are using a $4.6 million grant to create a green infrastructure planning framework, design and install eight shoreline restoration projects and implement a training program for veterans and students considering careers in the burgeoning green-infrastructure industry. “we’re very cognizant of sea-level change, and we need to implement practices that are adaptable and sustainable in the long-term. it’s an incremental approach, rather than one big sweeping change. many small steps are making the difference. everybody’s efforts are starting to bear fruit, and this large influx of projects will tip it in the right direction.” the hurricane sandy coastal resiliency competitive grant program, benefiting more than 210 communities from virginia to rhode island, is expected to engage more than 8,700 young people, veterans and volunteers. work already has begun to reduce more than 216 million gallons of stormwater runoff, decreasing flooding and pollution in urban communities. other projects will restore more than 6,800 acres of wetlands, marshes and dune systems that will buffer communities from storms and enhance fish and wildlife habitats.