 restoring the underwater health of major estuaries is a complex process. the pressures on the ecosystem, the economic needs of the community, and the scale of the restoration all factor into the equation. san francisco bay is facing such a balancing act as it begins the task of removing thousands of decayed wooden pilings, some decades old, that leach toxic creosote into its waters. a single marine piling contains over 60 gallons of creosote, a coal-based sealant. as it sinks into the sediment, it contaminates the entire food chain, including the eelgrass and oysters that purify the estuary. fish that lay their eggs on the pilings, including pacific herring, have been particularly affected. studies of herring eggs poisoned by creosote show a mortality rate of up to 95 percent. and as the bay’s herring population plummets, so does the last remaining urban fishery in the u.s. although outlawed as a sealant since 1993, creosote continues to pollute bay waters, seeping from abandoned bridges, wharfs, and pilings. a survey of derelict pilings in 2008 mapped not only the 33,000 exposed at low tide, but also an equal number submerged below the tide line. in 2010, the san francisco bay subtidal habitat goals report — a 50-year conservation plan developed by state, regional and federal partners — recommended removing the pilings, but the massive cost of extraction was daunting. local environmental organizations sought creative funding to begin the task. in 2013, nfwf responded with a $2 million grant from its san francisco bay estuary conservation fund. the fund, comprised of community service payments received as a result of several federal criminal prosecutions, is managed by nfwf’s impact directed environmental accounts program (idea). it is dedicated to protecting and restoring the san francisco bay estuary and adjacent coastal watersheds, and supports efforts to benefit fish, wildlife, and habitats, as well as projects to improve federal, state, and local enforcement of environmental and wildlife protection laws. nfwf made the first award from the san francisco fund to the california coastal conservancy, a state agency, to support an innovative effort to remove the pilings and re-establish a healthy underwater habitat. “nfwf’s support will help us implement our subtidal goals: a stronger, healthier habitat,” explains marilyn latta, project manager for the conservancy. “they’re taking a huge lead on this.” the project will remove approximately 1,200 toxic pilings from the estuary — an ambitious goal that will involve site selection, project design, permitting, subtidal habitat restoration, pre- and postconstruction monitoring, public involvement, and outreach to resource agencies and environmental stakeholders.