 in the 15 years that i’ve been on nrdc’s board, i have noticed people are drawn to the environmental movement for a host of reasons. i got involved because i wanted to preserve wild landscapes. others join because they want to safeguard their children’s health, protect beloved animals, or promote sustainable technologies. recently, polluting industries have tried to marginalize our issues. but nrdc is working hard to demonstrate that public support for environmental protection runs deep and wide in american society. our influential members and partners have been especially effective in this effort. when the solar firm solyndra defaulted on a federal loan guarantee last september, fossil fuel industries and their allies in congress tried to renounce the entire clean energy sector. nrdc hit back hard. our experts presented lawmakers with data about clean energy’s explosive growth and reminded journalists solyndra was one of more than 5,500 solar companies in the united states. we also had another weapon in our arsenal: nrdc’s sister organization environmental entrepreneurs (e2). this national group of leading business voices—representing more than 850 companies and 500,000 jobs in 41 states— believes economic prosperity and environmental protection go hand in hand. when the solyndra debate flared up, e2 started releasing a weekly online job listing titled “what clean energy jobs? these clean energy jobs!” the bulletins show that in just six weeks more than 100 clean energy companies announced plans to create tens of thousands of american jobs. e2 brought a much-needed business perspective to a polarized political conversation. this wasn’t tree huggers talking about clean energy; it was executives and manufacturers. on other issues, our los angeles leadership council tapped the entertainment and media industries to call for greater ocean protections this year. and our global leader- ship council of influential ambassadors urged lawmakers to act as well. nrdc’s sister organizations complement the work our advocates do with outside groups, including labor unions, physicians and nurses, latino community associations, and concerned parents. together we are building a revitalized movement and showing lawmakers that environmental safeguards reflect fundamental american values of conservation, efficiency, security, and innovation. with that as our foundation, we can continue to achieve remarkable success.