 how does science help advance see extreme heat coming. they could put local nrdc's mission? hospitals on alert and advise people to stock up science is the foundation of everything we do- on water, avoid the sun during the hottest hours, our litigation, our advocacy, and our policy work. and wear light clothing. now that we've helped we're one of the few ngos that can boast a wide highlight a demand for this information, range of in house scientific expertise as well as 100 cities in india recent extended forecasts. a rigorous independent scientific peer review process. we not only publish groundbreaking what kind of results have you seen? research but translate complex data-both for the during the heat wave of may 2015, there were public and for policymakers-so people can make more than 2,300 heat-related deaths across deci.sion.s based on facts, not rhetoric. india, but because it was prepared with a heat action plan, ahmedabad reported only seven. what role did scientific re.search play in that's a big difference from the 1,300 in that city initiating nrdc's recent climate and health just a few years earlier. nrdc is now helping work in india? several cities and states in the same region when we began to talk about the health risks formulate their own heat action plans;. we're of heat waves in india as part of nrdc's india also redoubling our outreach to vulnerable initiative, people disregarded thee climate populations and the medical community in projections and said, ''it's always been hot in ahmadabad and having discussions with national india." it was science and evidence that made our authorities about including extreme heat in point. we had the data to back up our assertion india's disaster relief and response activities. that 1,300 deaths in the city of ahmadabad during the 2010 heat wave could have been avoided. this was a wake up call for city leaders. how does it feel to sec your data analysis spark a real-world solution? it's a great example of what the science center how has nrdc equipped decision makers to does so well. we build bridges across issue areas prepare for future heat waves? within nrdc and between our organization and before we began this work, the indian the scientific community to make sure we are meteorological department, which is like our having the right conversations and establishing national weather service, didn't typically publish the right collaborations to advance our work. 5-day or 10-day fore-casts. they would only relay the heat action f>lan helped create strategies that day's weather, to address this is.sue, nrdc that can help build climate resilience and protect partnered with some colleagues in the united millions of people. you never know which little states who were able to develop a 7-day forecast stone you throw is going to be the one that ripples system for ahmadabad so decision makers could through the pond.