 a sampling of accomplishments for the year includes productive partnerships to safeguard the lands and waters crucial to the production of food and to habitat for biodiversity. a new agreement with the hoh river trust gives tnc ownership of more than 10,000 acres of vital habitat for restoration and renewal in the hoh river valley in the olympic rainforest. connecting the mountains of olympic national park to the sea, the mossy hoh river is among washington’s most iconic places. clear and undammed, the river hosts one of the healthiest wild salmon runs in the lower 48 states. the nature conservancy and partners created three new water funds, in cartagena, colombia; santa marta and ciénaga, colombia; and guatemala city. water funds are mechanisms that incentivize urban water users to fund conservation actions upstream in the watershed to ensure reliable flows of clean water downstream. thus far, tnc, as part of the latin america water funds partnership, has helped create 23 water funds, conserving nearly 300,000 hectares, with improved environmental management on an additional 1.6 million hectares, that included more than 200 private and public partners. the nature conservancy is contracting with the grand valley water users association to keep 3,200 acre-feet of water (about a billion gallons) in the colorado river. the association is contracting, in turn, with individual farmers and ranchers to forgo irrigation in return for financial compensation. the project’s participants are fallowing approximately 1,250 acres for up to two years, allowing much-needed flows to remain in the river to provide system-wide benefits, including environmental flow improvements for two endangered fish species. capping a 17-year effort, tnc provided scientific data and other critical support to help the community secure a 10-year marine reserve at ka‘ūpūlehu, on the north kona coast of hawaii, to restore abundance to a once-thriving fishery, the first such community-created marine reserve in the state.