 late last winter, when u.s. officials began advising handwashing and issuing stay at-home orders in response to an unprecedented public health emergency, they likely weren't picturing the hundreds of thousands of people across the country who lacked running water or struggled to keep the lights on. these affordability issues were already simmering in the background ... and then covlo hit," says mae wu, who advocated for access to safe and affordable drinking water at nrdc for 14 years. against a background of staggering unemployment rates, the risk of mass utility shutoffs has skyrocketed-just as residents need these basic services the most. to protect public health, nrdc has been urging governors, utilities, and congress to ban utility disconnections. by mid-may, after the pandemic's first wave, 15 states plus the district of columbia and puerto rico established short--term moratoriums on water shutoffs. thanks in part to petitions from more than 17,000 nrdc members, several governors required safe reconnections for all occupied homes and offered emergency water in the interim. numerous public and private electricity providers also responded to these calls for preventing service disconnections during the crisis. but the successes were only short term. many state shutoff moratoriums expired, and by the end of november, only 45 percent of americans were protected from disconnections of their electricity and gas service. far fewer were protected from statewide water shutoff's, which has left hundreds of millions of americans at risk. in the face of this ongoing crisis, nrdc continues to fight for long•term investments in both repairing our national water infrastructure and upgrading homes- particularly for those who bear the largest energy burdens. that includes residents of the country's 10 million affordable multifamily units, almost half of which were built at least 5o years ago. many are in desperate need of retrofits to drafty windows, inefficient lighting., and outmoded heating and ac systems, and aging appliances such as refrigerators. such improvements not only lower bills but they can also reduce greenhouse gases and benefit indoor air quality. to date, the program has helped more than 200,000 renters across the country. the impact is substantial," says nrdc's deron lovaas, who works with the energy efficiency for all project. "low income people pay a big chunk of their household budgets on energy bills, so it's like a regressive tax!' the pandemic has reinforced the importance of finding ways to help make these basic costs of living manageable and boosting the resillience of homes to economic shocks over the long-term in few u.s. cities is the burden of high utility bills more apparent than in detroit~ since 2014, some 140,000 of its residents have faced water shutoff's due to skyrocketing water rates, a 35 percent poverty rate, and what the aclu dubbed floppy billing practices" by the detroit water and sewerage department~ though covid-19 has brought this crisis to a head, nrdc has been working with the local people's water board coalition since 2017 to champion solutions such as income-based water rates, more sustainable payment plans, or a redistribution of infrastructure costs to the wealthier detroit suburbs. the public health risks of utility shutoff's are grave, and the impacts trickle down to mental health as well nicole hill, a detroit resident and longtime advocate for affordable water, described the trauma at a press conference hosted by the .people's water board coalition. living with the fear of losing your children to child protective services, or the stigma and stereotypes of the supposed spending habits, or never knowing the circumstances accounting for why my water bills are so high, is very frustrating," she said. activists like hill have long worked to highlight the link between public health and the lack of running water, says cyndi roper, an nroc policy expert who's worked on drinking water issues in the great lakes state for 25 years. it took a global pandemic for the obvious to become front and center in michigan! thanks to the dogged advocacy of the people's water board coalition and its allies, including nrdc, last march, governor gretchen whitmer ensured reconnections for all occupied homes, no matter how long they'd been disconnected. whitmer also ordered the distribution of emergency bottled water supplies for cooking and drinking and dedicated $2 million for reconnections that will require plumbing repairs in order to make the tap water safe again. but by october, the michigan supreme court had invalidated the governor's executive order. working together with local grassroots leaders, nrdc kept up its fight for the most vulnerable michiganders by supporting critical state legislation that placed a moratorium on water shutoff's and required water reconnections for an occupied homes until spring 2021. data compiled by nrdc in collaboration with the people's water board coalition is credited with garnering bipartisan support for the bill, signed into law in december further relief came after detroit's mayor, mike duggan, announced a two- year pause on water shutoffs and a commitment to finding a permanent solution. as roper notes, advocacy remains critical to reminding those in power of the injustices that so many people endure and the imperative to make change. there is really a heightened sense of awareness that there are people living in michigan without running water," roper says, ''because there has been coverage of the issue in a way that has never been done before."