 i am thrilled to be writing this message as the incoming president and chief executive officer of nrdc. in fact, i'd even say it's ''wicked awesome." in the 35 years i've spent to protect public health and the environment for the great people of our country, i've had many chances to see firsthand the value of nrdc's work and appreciate the organization's unrelenting commitment to clean air, clean water, and a healthy environment and climate for our kids and future generations. and now i am close enough to see firsthand that nrdc has the passion, tenacity, integrity, and smarts to successfuljy stand up against the unprecedented attacks on our health and our natural resources we are facing today. here's what you should know about me. i've worked in all levels of government local, state, federal, and international--and i understand that each plays a critical role in protecting our health, our environment, and our climate. i have always kept my eye on meeting the mission by focusing on outcomes and results that are measurable and real. i am a collaborator, a team player, a communicator, and a fighter. l face conflicts head-on, and i am not afraid to stand up for what i believe will make a difference not just tomorrow but for the long term as well. and i don't give up. as nrdc celebrates its 50th year, i could not be more excited to come on board. i could not sit on the sidelines and just hope and pray; there is no time to waste. we are facing a climate crisis that threatens our health and our well being. our decisions today-and the actions we take or fail to take-will determine whether the world will be livable and sustainable for us tomorrow. it will take a concerted, coordinated, and sustained effort, both nationally and internationally, to tackle this crisis and turn it into an opportunity to build a cleaner, healthier, and more inclusive world. nrdc is the perfect team. to lead this momentous task because nrdc has a proven record of success, and we are ready to build on that success. this year, nrdc will keep pushing for a just and equitable transition to 100 percent clean energy in our work at the state and local levels. we will help our communities to build resilience and prepare for the climate changes that are no longer avoidable. we will double down on our defense against federal rollbacks that continue to threaten our health and our climate, and we won't stop until we win these fights in court. and we will strengthen our international partnerships to better protect human health and "now i am close enough to see firsthand that nrdc has the passion, tenacity, integrity, and smarts to successfully stand up against unprecedented attacks on our health and our natural resources we are facing today." preserve the wild places that are invaluable and can never be replaced. i am honored, humbled, and more than a little amazed to be taking the reins of nrdc at the start of its next 50 years. following in the footsteps of leaders past-john adams, frances seinecke, and rhea suhis daunting, but thankfully i have mitch bernard, our chief counsel and interim president, to guide me with his deep knowledge of and commitment to, the organization. and i'm grateful to our staff, our board., and all of you, our members and activists, who have embraced our shared mission and joined this fight for our future. together, we cannot lose.