 as we come to the end of 2008, each day reveals new uncertainty in economic markets, and each month presents mounting evidence of melting ice caps, diminishing glaciers and more intense storms. last spring, the board of directors met in papallacta, ecuador, 11,000 feet above sea level. as we visited the páramo, an exquisite high-alpine shrubland that is the source of most of quito’s water, a local guide told us that the line between where precipitation falls as rain and where it falls as snow had moved 1,000 feet up the mountain—in just eight years! whether it’s our climate or financial systems, the whole world is linked. no longer can we luxuriate in easy divisions of local and global. my roots in the nature conservancy have been as a trustee and donor to the maine chapter, where i fell in love with the conservancy’s bright, heartfelt people and our smart, thoughtful conservation. our core strength is that we take the time to understand how places work—both ecologically and socially—and then act to protect the natural world on which all life depends. looking through the lens of our work in maine, the coin of global interconnection has two sides. on the bright side, the conservancy’s restoration of maine’s penobscot river improves the whole north atlantic. on the other side, no matter how effective our work with coastal estuaries, if climate trends continue, a rising ocean will swamp these nurseries of biodiversity we thought we had protected. our success conserving local landscapes is now tied inextricably to global conservation. twenty percent of global carbon emissions come from deforestation—and the conservancy has decades of experience conserving forests around the world. as we now combine this work on the ground with support for international initiatives to curb deforestation as a key strategy to halt climate change, our impact will grow exponentially. today’s mix of crisis and opportunity makes me confident that our campaign for a sustainable planet is the right endeavor at the right time. i am heartened that the campaign has already generated an impressive 40 percent of our three-year, phase-one goal of $1.6 billion. please join us as we work together to double the amount of the world’s conserved land and water by 2015. by supporting the nature conservancy’s practice of acting locally all around the world, we will protect the land we love at home, support the well-being of people everywhere and conserve the earth herself, who supports our every step and breath.