 the city of shenzhen barely existed 30 years ago in the pearl river delta just north of hong kong. what was a small fishing village in the 1970s is now a megalopolis of more than 15 million people, part of the world’s largest continuously urbanized area with a total population of 70 million. such unfathomable growth has had a tremendous impact on the region’s environment, with water and air pollution chief among the outcomes. such rapid urbanization also has exacerbated flooding, when vast concrete cities are unable to absorb and hold stormwater. china is already experiencing the mass migration of people to urban centers that will affect nations around the world in the coming decades. and with the severe weather patterns that come with climate change, cities are increasingly vulnerable to flooding. since 2008, the number of chinese cities affected by floods has more than doubled. chao (ivan) wan is an engineer and executive manager of planning and design for tencent, the chinese tech giant known for its social media businesses. tencent’s new headquarters complex in shenzhen has been developed with environmental sustainability in mind and with the nature conservancy as a partner: “i grew up in nanchang, the capital of jiangxi province, an overwhelmingly crowded city, where i also attended university. i had lead roles in both state design institutes and private design firms before joining tencent. “as an internet corporation, tencent was created within shenzhen’s innovative culture. creating a sustainable environment is a foundation to corporate development and a prerequisite to retaining talent. talent and a culture of sustainability are essential to tencent’s rapid growth. we aimed to establish the tencent binhai headquarters as an exemplary green, intelligent and user-friendly building from the very start. green architecture and ‘sponge city’ theories are identical. “the new complex consists of two interconnected towers, connected by three sky platforms. the plaza that contains these buildings is covered in permeable ceramic bricks, made from recycled materials and fired at a high temperature to withstand great pressure. the concrete beneath the ceramic bricks is also permeable, so the whole structure serves as a sponge, allowing large amounts of rainwater to seep through the ground, filtering out dirt and pollutants. gardens on the rooftops and sky platforms with permeable ceramic layers also allow rainwater absorption and purification. adjacent to the plaza, tencent is adding bioswales and gardens, expanded green areas with improved rainwater retention ability. following these additions, stormwater retention rates have increased from 30 percent to 66 percent. in typhoon season, there was no flooding during heavy precipitation. tencent is integrating a large interactive visual screen at its headquarters to present monitoring data and demonstrate how green infrastructure can improve the environment. this will be an effective way to engage and introduce the sponge city concept to the public.” the future three years ago, china launched its sponge city initiative, an effort across 30 chinese cities, including shenzhen, to tackle the runoff pollution and flooding problem by making cities more capable of filtering and holding water—by incorporating permeable road surfaces, planting trees and creating gardens, and instituting innovative development guidelines. the sponge city initiative has an ambitious goal: by 2030, 80 percent of built-up urban areas should manage at least 70 percent of rainwater. it is encouraging cities to develop innovative solutions that can then be shared. in december 2016, the nature conservancy, paradise foundation and the sponge city office of the shenzhen municipal government signed a collaboration framework agreement that marked the start of a long-term partnership to jointly establish and promote shenzhen as china’s pioneer sponge city. the nature conservancy’s efforts in shenzhen include four integrated directions: policy research and recommendations. implementation of six voluntary demonstration sites: a commercial skyscraper (tencent headquarters), a school (sinolink primary school), a factory (pingshan binhai medication factory), an urban town building (gangxia 1980), and a residential neighborhood and park to be determined. public engagement and advocacy. comprehensive technology application. shenzhen will benefit from knowledge gained at other global projects, and techniques pioneered at shenzhen will inform green infrastructure applications in other cities in china and around the world.