 a sampling of accomplishments for the year focuses on work with indigenous communities, governments and businesses to develop and expand innovative financial mechanisms that support climate-change mitigation. in east kalimantan—a province nearly the size of greece—the government of indonesia and tnc are partners in a forest carbon program. through communities inspiring actions for change (sigap in indonesian), tnc is helping east kalimantan communities gain rights to access and manage their forests, formulate green development plans, develop forest-friendly livelihoods and secure additional financial support. most recently the nethope 2017 device challenge (funded by google.org) is delivering 1,700 smartphones to 100 villages in east kalimantan and training villagers to use our sigap app to help them protect their forests and improve their lives through the power of technology. the nature conservancy has joined with swiss re, a leading global reinsurance company, and hotel owners on mexico’s mayan riviera to launch a first-of-its-kind pilot to insure the coral reefs that protect the tourism- dependent coast between cancún and tulum. the pilot demonstrates how to insure coastal natural ecosystems and offers an associated source of funding for ongoing reef protection and repair. a large hurricane would trigger near-immediate payouts. by having the money arrive quickly, reef repairs could begin sooner. the conservancy secured the sale and permanent retirement of the 62,000-acre bering river coal field in a groundbreaking transaction that also ensures forest protections and long-term income for an alaska native community. the transaction illustrates how land can be managed in a way that yields both financial and environmental benefits.the conservancy entered into a precedent-setting agreement with the city of albany to participate in the working woodlands carbon market program, which provides carbon credits, in the form of cash payments, for landowners to take steps to protect and manage their forests in order to store carbon and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. by committing to formal protections for its watershed, the city will keep the landscape intact, improve forest health and protect its drinking water supply for future generations. this transaction helps mitigate climate change, as well as achieve land and water protection goals, and is replicable throughout new york and other states.