 in 2020, we supported a slew of state initiatives that will directly impact environmental justice, clean air and water, conservation, endangered species, and the climate crisis. here are a few highlights. colorado to support a second change for wolves, we conducted targeted regional voter outreach and partnered with the global indigenous coucil and rocky mountain wolf action fund. our advocacy paid off when voters in the general election chose to restore endangered gray wolves to the landscape, supporting a ballot initiative that also ensures officials will solicit indigenous knowledge as they plan conservation efforts. oregon governor kate brown signed an executive order in march 2020 to curb greenhouse gas emissions, seeking a whopping 80 percent reduction in emissions from 1990 levels by 2050. the action fund leveraged its grassroots activist community to help provide brown with the public support needed to issue the mandate. the order more than doubled the goal of a clean fuels program, making it the most ambitious target in the country. pennsylvania our fight against a tax break to petrochemical companies including a six figure television and digital ad campaign with direct mail and phone banking led to influential media coverage and prompted thousands of pennsylvanians to contact their state legislators in opposition to this anti-environmental giveaway. fighting for economic relief the covld-19 pandemic only strengthened our resolve to demand positive change and climate solutions to benefit everyone. the nrdc action fund focused on ensuring that covid-19 stimulus and relief funds authorized by congress would go first to frontline health workers, struggling families, and small businesses instead of major corporations. we will remain in this fight as stimulus turns into recovery, advocating for better, smarter, and sustainable rebuilding of our economy and communities. defending frontline communities as part of an unprecedented community•wide push to save the national environmental policy act (nepa)-which protects the people's right to speak out against major infrastructure projects, such as pipelines or incinerators, that could threaten communities and public health nrdc action fund activists generated 103,000 original comments during the regulatory rollback comment period. when the trump administration chose to ignore this public input and authorize the rollback, nrdc rushed to court to defend nepa alongside environmental justice organizations from around the country.