 it all began at mianus. on christmas eve 1954, neighbors of a hemlock forest in bedford, new york, were given an ultimatum: make a bid on the wooded ravine before the new year or see the 60 acres developed. they pledged their life insurance policies to make a down payment and turned to a nascent nonprofit organization for help. together, the mianus gorge conservation group and the nature conservancy struck a deal to buy the land. it was a bold move in the 1950s. and it launched the conservancy into the work of land protection. a generation later in maine, a $3 million investment with a timber company to protect 40 miles of the fabled st. john river evaporated. the conservancy faced a similar challenge: buy the full 200,000 acres for $35 million — in six weeks — or lose the opportunity. the conservancy stepped up again, and a new era was launched — conservation of whole landscapes at a watershed scale. now, a decade later, the challenges to life are ever more daunting, global and interconnected. they are measured in declining fish populations, sinking aquifers and melting glaciers. in some places, we still apply strategies developed in the early days. but purchases of land alone will not win the day; there is not enough money and not enough time. and so we are expanding our toolbox by partnering with and catalyzing communities, businesses and governments to work with us to achieve conservation at ever-larger scales. everywhere the conservancy invests today, from the coral reefs of indonesia to montana’s rocky mountains, to the everglades and the headwaters of the yangtze river — just as at mianus river gorge — we work closely with local people, recognizing that their hard-won knowledge of place complements and completes our science. together we build on the essential connections between land, water and communities to benefit both nature and people, in order to achieve the essence of our mission, which is to save life on earth. our task in the 21st century is to care for nature as she cares for us. ignore the link between us, and both will suffer. support nature to thrive, and both humans and nature will thrive. this is the goal of the nature conservancy, in the united states and in the more than 30 other countries where we work around the world. building on nearly 60 years of experience, we are continually lifting our eyes to the next horizon of opportunity and effectiveness in our care for life on earth. with gratitude for your support,