 nrdc advocates who have fought for years to bring back this beleaguered urban waterway are joining local communities of color to ensure that new development doesn't equal displacement. as it winds its way through the urban landscape, the los angeles river performs a vital service for angelenos as an important means of flood control. during periods of heavy rain, this mostly channelized, 51-mile-long waterway is capable of depositing more than 10.8 million gallons of runoff the pacific ocean every minute. now, after many decades of neglect, portions of the river are undergoing a long-awaited and much-needed restoration designed to improve riparian health, preserve and strengthen wildlife habitat, and naturally treat the stormwater runoff that flows through the channel during extreme rain events. if the effort is successful, residents will get not only a healthier and more resilient l.a. river but also a more beautiful and welcoming one, flanked by new green spaces for communities to enjoy. nrdc has for decades been intimately involved with the plan to clean up the river, improve its water quality, and transform it into a genuine community asset. but as excitement over the waterway's resuscitation has risen, so too have housing costs and land speculation. and so advocates with nrdc's southern california ecosystems project are standing alongside the local communities facing pressure from gentrification as they demand equitable development. "for many years, when restoring the l.a. river was more of a far-off vision, advocates main goal was to convince our civic leaders that returning the river to a more natural state, restoring its ecological functions, and giving the public access to the river were all both possible and desirable,'" says nrdc senior attorney damon nagami. "through years of perserverance, we finally achieved that goal. but now that there's momentum behind and public resources aimed at river restoration, profiteering developers are horning with mega projects that are threatening to displace folks in low-income communities of color." residents of river adjacent communities- many of them. historically asian and latino--american-are justifiably concerned that the neighbor-hoods they've called home for generations are now under threat from developers whose projects are primarily geared toward the wealthy. 'the issue is playing out amid the worst homelessness crisis the city has seen in decades, with nearly 60,000 people living on the streets and some 600,000 los angeles county residents spending 90 percent or more of their income on housing costs. as they go about restoring the river, both the city and county of los angeles need to prioritize safety, safeguard everyday quality of life, lessen collateral displacement of longterm residents- principally renters-and prioritize preservation of area residential characteristics.'' says david de la torre of the elysian valley neighborhood watch. nrdc and other community advocates echo this message, believing that any development must establish structures and policies to protect existing low-income communities from displacement and gentrification. nagami also emphaslzes that any new development must include public, open green space along the riverfront and must protect critical river and watershed functions. the first two large development projects proposed along the river, north of downtown l.a., don't do any of these things," nagami says, so nrdc is mounting a campaign to oppose them. one of these proposed projects, a 419 unit residential complex with only 35 units set aside as affordable housing, would dramatically increase traffic and tailpipe emissions in the surrounding glassell park and atwater village neighborhoods, disrupt habitat restoration efforts, and place commercial development atop seven acres of riverside land that the city had previously envisioned as part of a contiguous public park. the other proposed project, a mixed-use complex in l.a.'s chinatown that would contain 920 upscale residential units, has already led to reports of landlords harassing and even evicting long-term neighborhood residents as development causes land values-and market rates for rental apartments-to increase. as a member of the los angeles regional open space and affordable housing collaborative, nrdc partners with other groups to bring more green space to urban and low~income neighborhoods while working to counter the displacement that too often comes with gentrification. we're trying to ensure that any development along a restored l.a. river is both sustainable and equitable," nagami says. that means inviting residents to take part in the planning and realization of projects, so that any new development proceeds with local support. and it means prioritizing-as nrdc does-the health and well-being of all communities, so that the rewards of environmental and economic progress are made available to everyone.