 a sampling of accomplishments for the year showcases diverse efforts to improve health and quality of life by bolstering the role of trees in our urban landscapes. in collaboration with local partners, tnc has embarked on a community greening effort in bridgeport’s east side neighborhood that includes developing green stormwater infrastructure, planting trees, and engaging volunteers in stewardship of parks and other natural areas. the eco-urban assessment model, which informed tnc’s decision to work in the east side, is now being replicated in other cities in connecticut and is guiding the chapter to other neighborhoods in bridgeport.the nature conservancy has teamed up with public school programs and other partners in birmingham to provide urban youth with hands-on experience in environmental science careers that also benefit the environmental health of their cities. in birmingham’s woodlawn neighborhood, students are engaged in restoring vacant lots into green oases that inspire community pride while helping cool the city, clean its air and accommodate recreation. melbourne regularly ranks as one of the world’s most livable cities, but industrial, commercial and residential development accompany such popularity. that’s why retention and growth of bushland and other green areas in melbourne are so important, along with trees’ ability to provide cooling summer shade and healthy, breathable air. the conservancy’s partnership with resilient melbourne includes developing the melbourne metropolitan urban forest strategy to help plan for a greener melbourne. as our first project in this african nation, tnc is working with others to establish a water fund in cape town, a city in the grip of drought. a primary culprit is thirsty, non-native, ornamental plants that are sucking the watershed dry. removal of these invasive species also can be a job creator for underserved urban communities.the nature conservancy raised a record amount of private funding in fiscal year 2017, its second year in a row doing so. continued, yet modest, growth in fundraising, coupled with strong long-term investment results of 11.1 percent for fy17, enabled 6 percent growth in operations and continued investment in capital project work around the globe. these strong operating results, combined with a rebound in conservation land gifts resulted in an increase in total net assets and a balance at june 30, 2017, of $6.2 billion, slightly above the balance of the prior fiscal year end. programmatic efficiency (66.8 percent was somewhat below the prior fiscal year (69.9 percent) because of lower conservation land purchase opportunities, and because the conservancy continued to make needed investments in growing its membership. land purchases are opportunistic and may not occur with consistent timing year to year, adding volatility to the programmatic efficiency percentage. for instance, midway through the conservancy’s next fiscal year, purchases of conservation land have already outpaced each of the prior two fiscal years, foretelling an upward swing in programmatic efficiency for fy18. the financial results depicted here are derived from the conservancy’s audited june 30, 2017 consolidated financial statements, which contain an unqualified audit opinion. the conservancy’s complete, audited financial statements can be obtained online at nature.org/annualreport or by calling (800) 628-6860.