 climate change knows no geopolitical boundaries. today, climate change stands as the single greatest threat to our planet. absent federal leadership in the u.s. currently, the nature conservancy has joined forces with governments, private enter- prise and others in all 50 states to advance policies and practices that demonstrate nature-based solutions and help ensure we meet obligations codified in the paris agreement. some state-based endeavors are far-reaching. tnc has been a key partner with the state of california in establishing its landmark carbon market over the past two decades. california polluters buy a specified amount of permits to reflect greenhouse gases they are allowed to emit. an innovative policy move led by tnc created a new way for companies to meet a portion of their emissions standards by purchasing carbon offsets from sustainably managed forest projects. tnc is now helping the california carbon market fund dozens of forest conservation projects across the country. one example is a 5,500-acre preserve on vermont’s northern border, part of a larger matrix of unfragmented forestland. burnt mountain is vermont’s first and largest forest carbon project eligible for the california carbon market. early estimates suggest that the parcel will yield more than 236,772 credits in the first decade (1 credit = 1 metric ton of carbon), an equivalent benefit of removing 38,000 cars from the road. the carbon storage project is also anticipated to generate $2 million in revenue over ten years. burnt mountain also happens to be tnc’s newest acquisi- tion in the northeast kingdom. intact and healthy forests like those protected at burnt mountain clean our air, remove pollutants, improve water quality and slow the pace of climate change by storing carbon. creating a carbon project here allows us to bring the benefits of those trees to the market. tnc has also partnered with governments to invest in a $1 billion carbon fund through the forest carbon partnership facility. this fund is designed to demonstrate large-scale carbon finance opportunities and will see more than 185 million carbon credits gen - erated from tropical forest conservation across 19 countries between now and 2025. science indicates that nature can provide more than a third of the emissions reductions we need between now and 2030 to keep the global temperature rise below 2 degrees celsius. beyond the u.s., tnc is spearheading forest carbon efforts with partners worldwide, from tanzania (see page 46) to chile and china, where tnc has implemented more than 27,000 acres of forest carbon-offset projects, including planting 24 million tree seedlings, which should sequester 2.6 million metric tons of carbon dioxide within 60 years. our latest expansion of the forest carbon model is blue carbon, recognizing that coastal wetlands— tidal marshes, seagrass meadows and mangrove forests—sequester billions of tons of carbon from our atmosphere at concentrations up to five times greater than terrestrial forests.