 the passage of another year in conservancy history gives us an opportunity to address a topic of prime importance to the future of our organization: the preservation of core values amidst constant change. over the life of the nature conservancy there will be many volunteer leaders. some of us bring experience in conservation, others bring skills in business and management. some are driven by love of a single place, the memory of which inspires us for a lifetime. others are drawn by the desire to experience and protect many far-flung and diversely wonderful places from the weir preserve in connecticut to komodo national park in indonesia. what inspires all of us, however, are the people who are making conservation happen every day. their passion has defined this organization for more than half a century, and it will remain the driving force behind our future success. the great strengths of the conservancy are the consistency of its mission and values and its ability to attract people who share them. chief executives change, board chairs come and go, strategies evolve under the influence of experi- ence and science, but values—a deep belief in the value of the natural world and the desire to protect it, a commitment to teamwork, a penchant for innovation and win-win solutions—remain the same. these values are much bigger than any one person associated with the nature conservancy. we simply steward them, much as we do the landscapes we seek to protect, only to pass them on to future generations of conservation- minded volunteer leaders—the people who will govern and lead the conservancy through future challenges. in the history of any organization there will be many challenges, many defining moments. the conservancy experienced one such moment in 2003 when the washington post scrutinized our practices in a critical and controversial profile. the senate finance committee has also begun an inquiry into our practices as part of a wider review of land trusts. these events have prompted a thorough evaluation to ensure that our methods are consistent with our values as well as our goals, and that our procedures promote our policies effectively. we have already made a number of reforms and improvements in our policies and procedures, and this process will continue. in june, we convened an independent panel to evaluate what changes would make the conservancy’s leaders even more effective in ensuring oversight, accountability and trans- parency in all of our activities. we’re already implementing some of the panel’s suggestions, and we look forward to working together to make further improvements. our objectives are to strengthen our governance and bolster our culture of integrity. looking forward, we will maintain our progress on improving oversight within our organization. our reward will be in turning from governance to conservation—in the knowledge that rigorous administrative standards ultimately make our on- the-ground effort more targeted, successful and measurable. strong, balanced governance will enable us to translate the bold 10-year goal just set by the board into real accomplishments around the globe. as we begin another year of strategically planned, scientifically guided, hands-on conservation, we’re optimistic about the future. the conservancy has proven to be an organization that can set and achieve big goals ... adhere to a vision while delivering practical, lasting results ... attract committed leadership ... and take a good hard look at itself and come away from the experience even stronger. we will continue to strive to get it right, evaluating our policies and procedures to make sure they are as effective and transparent as they can be. and at the end of the day, we will measure our success in the real world, among the great places we seek to protect and the people who live and work in those places. that’s where you will find our proudest accomplishments and our enduring inspiration.