 annual reports celebrate achievements of the past year, and in the case of the nature conservancy, those conservation achievements can be inspiring. our supporters should be proud of what they have enabled us to achieve in securing lands and waters on which all life depends. but we sometimes shortchange the underlying strengths and values that enable the conservancy to be successful. strong and transparent governance as a concept does not inspire awe, nor does it appeal to emotions as our conservation achievements do. nevertheless, good governance is one of our strengths and is crucial to our success as an institution. our record of effective and efficient governance allows us to engage and maintain long-term relationships with both local and global institutions—from local land trusts to usaid and government agencies in the u.s., latin america, europe, australia and asia. when we engage in capacity building with younger nongovernmental organizations around the world, we help instill principles of good governance that will enhance their effectiveness and garner trust from their constituencies as well. and hand-in-hand with governance is strong management of finances and projects. the conservancy has also become the industry leader in conceptualizing, testing and sharing creative methods to finance conservation. from our earliest establishment of a revolving land preservation fund through debt-for-nature swaps, conservation trust funds and matching-fund programs to leverage public support with private dollars, the conservancy has always sought to maximize our donors’ generosity. most recently we have focused on expanding such sustainable finance options as water funds, whereby urban water users finance upstream conservation action as a cost-effective means to ensure ongoing freshwater supplies. in coastal marine habitats, we are applying market approaches to incentivize conservation by fishers and cooperatives. and we are exploring the emerging carbon market as a means of sustainable funding for conservation across vast landscapes from australia to africa. it is this behind-the-scenes discipline, research, experimentation and negotiation that led ultimately to the conservation achievements we cheer. we remain grateful to our supporters, who understand the investment it takes to stay ahead of the challenges to our natural world. and we pledge to always value the sacrifice you and your families make to enable our efforts to continue.