 the nature conservancy’s achievements in 2002 demonstrate the broad scope of our mission to protect and preserve life on earth, from the rain forests of peru and the rivers of china’s yunnan province to the coastal forests of california and the wildlife-rich wilderness of colorado. the year’s accomplishments also illustrate the diversity of solutions we deploy to achieve our global goals, from debt-for-nature swaps to scientific studies to land purchases and public policy advocacy. the results of 2002, highlighted here, position the conservancy for continuing impact in the years ahead as we strive to save earth’s last great places. warm springs mountain, virginia challenge: preserve 9,000 acres of forest, including some of the world’s last montane pine barrens. solution: land purchase. the conservancy purchased more than 9,000 acres of private forestland on warm springs mountain. the conservancy is committed to raising more than $6.25 million for the property—the largest single land acquisition ever undertaken by the conservancy in virginia. the land, which overlooks a nationally known golf resort and a cluster of towns, supports some of the world’s last remaining montane pine barrens, as well as several rare plants and invertebrates. yunnan great rivers project, china challenge: increase awareness of and support for conservancy efforts to preserve threatened habitat in yunnan province. solution: meeting between conservancy representatives and chinese officials. in 2002, henry paulson, head of the the nature conservancy’s asia pacific council, met with president jiang zemin of china to discuss the conservancy’s work in china’s yunnan province. paulson and three china-based conservancy staff members joined the governor of yunnan province, the head of china’s state environmental protection administration and other officials in beijing for the unprecedented meeting. rose niu, director of the conservancy’s china program, briefed president jiang on the project’s progress. president jiang expressed appreciation for the conservancy’s work and urged continued cooperation to make the yunnan great rivers project a successful model of sustainable development in china. keweenaw peninsula in michigan challenge: protect an ecologically important habitat from fragmentation and development. solution: land purchase. in partnership with the michigan department of natural resources, the conservancy is using $12.5 million from the state natural resources trust fund to purchase 6,275 acres from lake superior land company, a subsidiary of international paper. the conservancy is raising $250,000 to cover interest costs. the state will own the land and open it for recreation. over the past 10 years, the conservancy and michigan have worked to protect more than 10,000 acres on the keweenaw peninsula. the most recent purchase, a fingerlike extension on the upper peninsula, features waterfalls, part of the montreal river, more than six miles of rugged lake superior shoreline and parts of three glacial lakes. the area is prime habitat for rare species such as the common loon and tawny crescent butterfly, the at-risk calypso orchid and heart-leaved arnica, raptors traveling the great lakes flyway, and wolves, black bear and moose. green river, kentucky challenge: prevent the decline of fish and mussel species by restoring a more natural flow and temperature regime on the green river. solution: a partnership between the conservancy and the u.s. army corps of engineers. the u.s. army corps of engineers delayed its annual release of water on kentucky’s dammed green river by a month in 2002, improving conditions on one of the country’s four richest river systems for fish and mussels. the new operating plan, the result of a three-year discussion between the corps and the conservancy, has inspired a nationwide collaboration called the sustainable rivers project. the project seeks to mimic natural flows on dammed rivers while maintaining traditional uses. so far, the corps and the conservancy have identified 13 dams out of the 630 the corps operates that can be managed to restore the health of the rivers. pacaya-samiria national reserve, peru challenge: protect rain-forest habitat threatened by overharvesting and industry. solution: debt-for-nature swap. through a debt-for-nature swap, the conservancy is parlaying a $370,000 investment into $3.5 million worth of rain-forest protection in peru’s pacaya-samiria national reserve over the next 12 years. peru will spend $10.6 million on conservation; in exchange, the remainder of its debt to the united states will be covered by funds from the u.s. forest conservation act and by conservation partners: the conservancy, the world wildlife fund and conservation international. pacaya-samiria, in the heart of the peruvian amazon, harbors diverse wildlife, including harpy eagles, jaguars, giant south american river otters, manatees and dolphins. at least 100,000 ribereños, “river people,” also live in and around the reserve. threats include overharvesting of hardwoods, road building, oil exploration, overfishing and overhunting. baca ranch, colorado challenge: protect a showcase of the american west—with mountains, plains, wetlands and sand dunes. solution: land purchase. as 2002 closed, the conservancy entered final negotiations to purchase the 97,000-acre baca ranch in colorado’s san luis valley. the valley is a vast high-elevation plain harboring more than 70 rare species, including the slender spiderflower, a plant found almost nowhere else on earth. negotiations for the property, which captures entire watersheds along the sangre de cristo mountains and is a coveted source of water, have been under way since 2000. the conservancy must secure funds to cover the nearly $32 million purchase price. baca ranch will then be transferred to the national park service and the u.s. fish and wildlife service, becoming part of newly created great sand dunes national park and baca wildlife refuge. together with an adjacent wilderness area and the conservancy’s medano-zapata ranch, hundreds of thousands of acres will be protected. central america challenge: create a regional wildlife corridor. solution: protect 4 million acres to create an economy for environmentally sound products. the environmental ministers of seven central american countries are collaborating through a regional environmental authority, which is working with the u.s. agency for international development and the nature conservancy on a five-year, $13 million project to protect enormous parcels of land while creating an economy for environmentally sound products. in this new phase of an earlier project, the conservancy has asked the world wildlife fund and the rainforest alliance to foster local “green” markets for certified wood, coffee and ecotourism. the project’s four sites encompass 4 million acres in belize, costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras, nicaragua and panama. these sites sustain enormous biodiversity but, because they cross borders, they lack consistent governance and law enforcement to preserve them. together they create a regional corridor of protected and sustainable development areas that connect north and south america. borneo, indonesia challenge: protect orangutans whose habitat is threatened. solution: scientific study of borneo’s orangutan population. conservancy scientists and trained local volunteers hiked the remote and rugged trails of borneo’s east kalimantan province in search of orangutans in 2002. the crew spotted only seven of the elusive great apes, but counted 1,600 orangutan nests. such evidence suggests that at least 1,500 orangutans live in the area—possibly one of the three largest populations on earth, representing an estimated 10 percent of the world’s wild orangutans. the study brings new attention to the conservancy’s efforts to protect orangutan habitat from fire and logging. the conservancy is working with government officials, local communities and timber companies to safeguard forests inhabited by the great apes, which are found only in borneo and sumatra. california challenge: secure funding to support long-term protection of the state’s land, air, water, parks and historic sites. solution: passage of proposition 40. in march 2002 california voters approved the country’s largest-ever natural-resource bond. proposition 40 sets aside $2.6 billion for land, air and water protection, parks and historic preservation. nearly 800 groups including businesses, unions and environmental and community groups endorsed the bond, which will create a new source of funds that can be applied to high-priority natural areas. the conservancy shaped the measure and spearheaded its media campaign. roughly $27 million of the funds generated by prop. 40 will enable state agencies to buy portions of the 10,000-acre palo corona ranch, a vital wildlife corridor recently purchased by the conservancy and the big sur land trust. local agencies will use their own funds to purchase other parts of the ranch for public use. with the resale, the conservancy will be able to reinvest its resources in other critical properties. belize challenge: protect rain-forest habitat vulnerable to logging and farming. solution: debt-for-nature swap. by raising $800,000 for the nature conservancy’s adopt an acre program, american schoolchildren are playing a key role in the protection of 23,000 acres of prime rain forest in belize. the students’ donation is part of a deal coordinated by the u.s. government under the tropical forest conservation act. belize will commit $6.8 million of its debt, plus some land, to organizations such as conservancy partners toledo institute of development and environment and programme for belize. over the next 26 years, interest saved by making the lump-sum payment will support stewardship and endowment funds for protected areas amounting to nearly a fifth of belize’s land mass. the area protected by adopt an acre dollars, in southern belize’s maya mountains, is home to more than 220 tree species and 350 bird species, as well as jaguars and ocelots. it includes 16 miles of caribbean coastline and is vulnerable to aggressive logging and conversion to citrus and shrimp farming. tug hill, new york challenge: protect a 150,000-acre forest habitat from fragmentation. solution: land purchase in partnership with the state of new york. the tug hill region, north of syracuse, contains a 150,000-acre block of intact forest and supports extensive wetlands and diverse wildlife. to protect this showcase, the conservancy has implemented a protection strategy it is using throughout new england’s northern forest. with the state, the conservancy purchased nearly 45,000 acres from hancock timber resource group, and will retain ownership of 13,000 acres as an ecological reserve. the state will own a 1,350-acre river corridor; the remaining 30,300 acres will be covered by an easement requiring sustainable forest management and continued public access. details of the protection plan were developed by the tug hill commission, the east branch of fish creek working group and a coalition of representatives from the conservancy, the state and hancock timber resource group. residents, town officials and recreational land users actively participated in drawing up this plan. noel kempff mercado national park, bolivia challenge: protect forests and wildlife from unsustainable logging. solution: support sustainable community enterprises. protecting 620 species of bird, 130 types of mammal, and 70 kinds of reptile, american electric power and bp have committed an extra $1.3 million to fund community enterprises in bolivia’s noel kempff mercado national park. this 30-year, multi-partner project is designed to let forests grow by fostering an economy that is centered around sustainable logging. local small businesses— bakeries, chicken farms, bicycle repair shops, pharmacies, craft shops and sugar cane processors—play a key role in the 3.8 million-acre–larger than the state of connecticut–climate action program, which was initiated at the park in 1997. palo corona ranch, california challenge: protect a 10-mile forested wildlife corridor that links a dozen protected properties to the ventana wilderness, part of the los padres national forest. solution: land purchase with partner and support from proposition 40. the nature conservancy partnered with the big sur land trust to purchase the 10,000-acre palo corona ranch in 2002. the conservancy is arranging the transfer of the ranch to local and state agencies, some of which will use funds from newly-passed proposition 40 to buy their portions of the property. palo corona is ridge-top habitat stretching 10 miles south from carmel to the los padres national forest. the ranch contains superb examples of redwood and monterey pine forests, as well as mountain lions, eagles and steelhead trout. most important, safeguarding palo corona secures a corridor connecting 12 other protected properties totaling 9,400 acres and links them to the 237,206-acre ventana wilderness, creating a 70-mile forested corridor for animals and people. pez maya in the sian ka’an biosphere reserve, mexico challenge : preserve coastal wetlands threatened by development. solution: land purchase and management by a conservancy partner as part of coastal protection strategy. partnering with the conservancy on the $2 million purchase of land from a mexican bank, amigos de sian ka’an has orchestrated a protection plan for the miles of keystone coastal wetland habitat on mexico’s threatened yucatan peninsula. amigos de sian ka’an will own and manage the property, known as pez maya, which will be protected from development by a conservation easement. pez maya is the northern gateway to the 1.6-million-acre sian ka’an biosphere reserve. more than 1,200 species of plants and hundreds of species of mammals, birds and butterflies thrive in sian ka’an, mexico’s largest protected coastal wetland. at least 80 bird species common to maine—including peregrine falcons, osprey, common terns, black-bellied plovers, common yellowthroats and palm warblers—winter in sian ka’an. coastal waters harbor coral formations and game fish, and provide prime breeding territory for american crocodiles, manatees and turtles. peconic estuary, long island, new york challenge: restore a diverse underwater habitat. solution: use of high-tech sonar to study the bay bottom. a quarter of the bay scallops harvested in the united states came from the peconic estuary—until brown algae invaded in 1985 and smothered the scallops. to restore the scallop population, scientists with the u.s. environmental protection agency, stony brook university and the conservancy are using sonar to map the bay bottom in six areas, from flanders bay to northeast of gardiners island. the sonar sends acoustic signals to the bottom of the bay and reveals what’s below on a laptop computer. the technology enables scientists to search for eelgrass meadows, a nursery, spawning area and refuge for many marine organisms, including bay scallops. information gained from the study will help scientists restore the bay habitat and support better marine conservation in the peconic estuary. the mission of the nature conservancy is to preserve the plants, animals and natural communities that represent the diversity of life on earth by protecting the lands and waters they need to survive.