 2.1 name of the organization. natural resources defense council, inc. 2.2 primary activities. nrdc is a nonprofit environmental advocacy organization that works to restore the integrity of the elements that sustain life—air, land, and water—and to defend endangered natural places. we also help ensure that people can voice their own opinions about how to stop and solve environmental threats. we do this by driving the science and legal challenges that protect us from the biggest environmental and public health crises of our time—climate change, oceans on the brink of collapse, the ongoing endangerment of wildlife and wild places, dependence on dirty fossil fuels that destroy fragile ecosystems and fill our atmosphere with pollutants, the prevalence of toxic chemicals like mercury and lead in our environment, and unsustainable agricultural practices that are driving the evolution of superbugs and undermining the efficacy of antibiotics upon which so much modern medicine relies. our communications and membership teams translate the urgency of these crises to advocates who care deeply about the earth, leveraging their phone calls, emails and petitions to demonstrate public sentiment and motivate meaningful policy change. 2.3 operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. headquartered in new york city, nrdc has regional offices in washington, d.c.; chicago; bozeman, montana; san francisco; los angeles; and an office in beijing, china. nrdc’s operations are organized into program areas that address our six priority issues. program staff rely on specialized support from experts in multiple capacities: communications, campaigns, litigation, government affairs, and advocacy. there are also administrative support functions including human resources, facilities, information technology, finance and treasury, and budgeting and grants. nrdc has two subsidiaries, the nrdc action fund, inc. and nrdc limited. the action fund is a new york not-for-profit corporation that is exempt from taxation under section 501 (c) (4) of the internal revenue code, and nrdc limited is a hong kong company limited by guarantee that is also exempt from taxation. nrdc sustainability as an ethical imperative 7 2.4 location of organization’s headquarters. 40 west 20th street new york, ny 10011 2.5 number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. united states and china. we also have operations in canada, mexico, chile, and india, which are not covered in this report as we do not have a substantial footprint in those locations. 2.6 nature of ownership and legal form. details and current status of not-for-profit registration. natural resources defense council, inc. is a new york not-for-profit corporation that is exempt from taxation under section 501 (c) (3) of the internal revenue code and has 1.4 million members and activists. 2.7 markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/ beneficiaries). nrdc’s sweeping national influence—between our advocacy on federal regulation and local influence in conjunction with community activists throughout the country—means that domestically, we reach any citizen who benefits from the use of ecosystem services and a healthy environment. we work throughout north and south america, india, and china. 2.8 scale of the reporting organization. employees: 422 revenue: $97m expenses: $76m net revenue: $8m (sources: charitynavigator.org, form 990) 2.9 significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. none. 2.10 awards received in the reporting period. founding director john adams received the 2010 presidential medal of freedom, america’s highest civilian honor, from president obama. frances beinecke received an honorary doctorate of humane letters from lehman college. karen garrison: peter benchley award, hero of the sea for 2013. jen sorenson: american bar association, 2013 distinguished environmental advocate. pierre delforge received the project merit award for smart grid and energy management from the climate change business journal recognizing his terrific cloud computing report. amanda eaken was awarded the southern california association of governments 2013 president’s sustainability leader award for her efforts to make southern california a better place to work and live. onearth executive editor george black won the kevin carmody award for outstanding in-depth reporting on the environment for his article in the winter 2013 issue that explored not only the environmental impact of mining, but its social, political, and economic consequences. the story was described by the judges as both memorable and “richly told.” becky stanfield was awarded the u.s. energy policy award for her accomplishments, leadership, and mentorship of others in the clean energy field, by c3e, a partnership between the mit energy collaborative and the u.s. department of energy. kaid benfield was named one of the top 100 city innovators worldwide by future cities. the beijing office achieved gold leed commercial interiors v3. the dc office achieved platinum leed commercial interiors v3. the chicago office achieved platinum leed, and site, materials and beauty petal recognitions from the living building challenge—the first commercial project in the world receiving petal recognition and first tenant improvement project in chicago to earn such recognition. the international living future institute also awarded the office the first office retrofit certification—as part of its living building challenge—for meeting the requirements in eco- friendly design, performance and beauty. onearth won the folio eddie award, which honors editorial excellence in the magazine industry, for best online news coverage.