 the challenge: as the conservation movement has grown and evolved, people are increasingly asking questions about its impact: how will we know we’re really protecting the things we say we will? and how will we know our results last? the complexity of conservation solutions and the long time frame required to see results have made answering these questions difficult. no major conservation organization has reliable methods or measures in places to assess the impact of its practices comprehensively—or to predict with confidence that its results will make a significant difference over time. how we’re making a difference: over the past two years, a conservancy team has been developing and testing tools to determine whether the conservancy is achieving its goals, whether its results can be verified and how to report these results with credibility. using the cosumnes river project in california and the komodo national park project in indonesia as case studies, the team discovered that many indicators of long-term conservation impact could be monitored, reported and fed into decision-making processes for future action. the team’s work has generated a universal set of tools to measure and audit conservation results at virtually any project. starting in 2004, our new conservation measures and audit group will use these tools to track biodiversity status, monitor the effectiveness of particular conservation actions and emphasize learning and accountability across conservancy projects. to increase learning and collaboration within the conservation movement, the conservancy has joined with the world wildlife fund, wildlife conservation society, conservation international, african wildlife foundation and others to form the conservation measures partnership. this effort is coordinated by foundations of success, a nonprofit organization that helps conservation groups measure success. working together, we hope to establish a common framework for auditing our work, much like the generally accepted accounting principles that publicly traded companies use to report their results. these measures will enable us to assess, learn from and report the results of ongoing projects and plan future conservation efforts more effectively.