 up to one million plant and animal species may go extinct, many within decades, if we don't act fast, according to a recent bombshell report from the united nations. 'there is no :single threat; wildlife faces pressures from a rapidly warming climate, habitat degradation, and industrial pollution. compounding these environmental threats, poaching and the international trade in animals and their parts are pushing at risk species even closer to the brink. it's important to remember that people, too, will suffer from a crash in biodiversity. intact, diverse ecosystems support our economies, provide food, and sustain our quality of life. as zak smith, a senior attorney in nrdc's nature .program, notes, "abundant and flourishing wildlife is necessary for healthy people and thriving communities." the august 2019 meeting. of the convention on international trade in endangered species (cites) in geneva offered an opportunity to change course. 'the only convention-of its kind, cites draws together representatives from nearly every country-as well as advocates from organizations like nrdc in order to define international trade restrictions for imperiled species. the work begins long before the event itself. nrdc often spends years leading up to the meeting building the case for urgent conservation action on behalf of individual species. we regularly comb through and condense scientific research, support undercover investigations into the trade of wild animals and their parts, and present our findings to coalition partners and voting party members. these efforts paid off at the 2019 convention. in addition to laying the groundwork for aggressive systemic change, we saw victories for every species we worked to protect. here's a rundown of what we achieved. african elephants and rhinos have been poached to the brink of extinction for their ivory and horns. although the international commercial trade in their parts has been banned for years, some nations sought to reopen this trade. nrdc helped beat back these proposals, in part by demonstrating how any legal international commercial trade in these species would only open parallel illegal markets, increase poaching. and raise security threats. the vaquita, the world's most endangered marine mammal, is facing extinction because of the uncontrolled use of gillnets in the illegal poaching of totoaba fish in the gulf of california. thanks in part to the advocacy of nr0c's wildlife experts., cites leaders threatened long needed sanctions against mexico if the country fails to enforce a ban on the trafficking of these fish. asian otters have declined by 30 percent due to habitat loss and the global demand for their fur. increasingly, they are also sold as pets to cafes. driven in part by the trend of posting cute otter photos on social media. nrdc led the adoption of a proposal at cites that completely bans international commercial trade in these otter species. 41 multiple species of sharks- routinely overfished for their prized meat and fins-gained new protections. thanks in part to nrdc advocacy efforts to stem the exploitation of these vulnerable predators across the world's oceans, customs and wildlife agencies in nations along the trade chain, like the united states, must now ensure that the shark fins passing across their borders are properly permitted and were caught legally and sustainably. giraffes are in peril, having declined more than 40 percent in the past 30 years, but nrdc helped build support for restrictions on the international commercial trade in their parts, which is a key factor driving their demise