 “with 60 percent of the world’s population and seven of the 10 largest cities, asia pacific is the fastest-growing region in the world. stretching from mongolia to new zealand, myanmar to micronesia, this geographically diverse region is home to a unique variety of cultures, traditions, natural systems and species. but asia pacific is at a crossroads—one that is emblematic of the challenges our world now faces as populations grow and become more urban. increasing demands for food, water, housing and energy are placing enormous pressures on the region’s many natural resources, including its tropical forests and fisheries, putting species, traditional communities and quality of life at risk. we feel these pressures more than any other region on the planet. the demand for timber, fish and agricultural products, once coming primarily from the u.s. and europe, is now coming increasingly from the region itself as hundreds of millions of people move from poverty into the middle class. in many ways, as goes asia pacific, so goes the world. this combination of human development, economic growth and natural diversity is what makes the asia pacific a critical region for the nature conservancy. to address these challenges, we’re working with communities, governments and industries across mongolia, china, indonesia, australia, myanmar and the pacific islands to build a more sustainable future for both nature and people. living here and traveling in the region has been an eye-opening experience. what i appreciate most about asia pacific are the voices from the field—mongolian herders using the conservancy’s maps to preserve traditional lands and livelihoods, indonesian rangers who protect critical habitat for the last remaining wild orangutan populations in the world, fishers in palau who are testing data-capture techniques that could transform tuna fishing across the pacific. together, the conservancy and our many partners are making a positive impact on the management of diverse natural systems and the resources they supply. for more than 25 years, the conservancy has successfully worked with partners across the asia pacific to implement science-based, innovative conservation solutions that address the conservation challenges we face. success in the next 25 years will take the combined efforts of all of us to make this work possible.”