 these days, we can’t count on federal agencies charged with ensuring a healthy environment and public health to carry out their duties. how has your strategy shifted to reflect this new landscape? sujatha jahagirdar: given the gridlock we have seen in congress and the regulatory stalemates, we’re working within the market. because so many industries have be- come so consolidated, there’s an opportunity to make big changes quickly. in the food service industry, three companies own 75 percent of the market share. that means if you get three companies to commit to a change, you’ve trans- formed the entire sector. for example, nrdc is working with compass—the largest food service company in the country—to help reduce its impact on global warming by pushing it to buy 30 per- cent less red meat and more vegetables over the course of three years. livestock, especially grazers like cows and sheep, are incredibly resource-intensive to produce, and in the united states, beef is responsible for more emissions than almost all other foods combined. nrdc staff have also helped build the market for “imperfect” fruits and vegetables, healthy foods that otherwise have gone to waste given their off size or shape. that includes catalyzing development of compass’s imperfectly delicious produce program, which is now rescuing produce from farms across the nation. in another partnership, nrdc works with the food services and facilities management company sodexo in piloting and evaluating the use of waste-tracking software, a tool we’re currently testing through our food waste reduction initiative in nashville. how does nrdc help make the case to encourage industries to pursue changes like these? a big part of our advocacy work is per- suasion: insider lobbying. for example, we conduct and share case studies that offer examples of corporate innovators around the country experimenting with solutions to find new ways to tackle food waste and show companies how they can follow suit. we’re also demonstrating how much support there is for these changes, which is often very important. companies recognize there’s a whole lot of public support for sustainability policies right now. that’s largely what’s driving it—consumer preference. in the case for climate health, that means plant-forward menus. people want healthier, more sustainable options. who else are you pushing to be more sustainable right now? we’re working to convince aramark, which is one of the top three service companies providing food to places like college campuses, hospitals, and stadiums. we’ve sent a letter signed by 70 organizations, from the humane society to oxfam to the sierra club, asking aramark to cut its purchases of climate-intensive foods. it’d be a really big deal, cutting their menus’ emissions by 20 percent. they’ve launched a pilot program, but expanding it nationwide is the next step. we’re also working on developing a scorecard to grade food service companies—like the ones that supply cafeterias and college campuses—on how climate- friendly their options are. we’re trying to facilitate a race to the top and publicly recognize those that are succeeding.