 nrdc actively defends areas of high biodiversity value from industrialization and development through our “biogems” program and other programs designed to protect imperiled species and their habitats. en11 location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. nrdc does not own, lease, or manage any land in areas of high biodiversity value. en12 description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. each year, we mobilize 1.4 million nrdc members and online activists to pressure governments and companies to stop industrializing the world’s last wild places through the biogems program. nrdc biogems are special places across the americas that face an imminent threat of destruction, yet are also irreplaceable remnants of wilderness that curb global warming, preserve biodiversity, and provide sanctuary for rare and extraordinary wildlife, from threatened polar bears to endangered gray whales. in 2012, we asked the administration to reject the permit for the destructive keystone xl tar sands pipeline; helped persuade mexico to grant a new level of protection to key lands surrounding the gray whale nursery in san ignacio lagoon; and helped defeat exxonmobil’s plan to turn a pristine stretch of the rocky mountains into an industrial transportation corridor. en13 habitats protected or restored. nrdc is protecting the arctic from oil companies such as shell, which are putting the polar bear seas off the northern coast of alaska at risk with oil and gas development. nrdc is also protecting territory stretching from alberta, canada, to the refineries in texas from the proposed keystone xl pipeline, which would transport raw, toxic tar sands oil through america. we are protecting the spirit bear coast from the northern gateway pipeline planned by energy giant enbridge, which would carry 500,000 barrels of tar sands oil daily directly through this rain forest in canada. and nrdc has launched a campaign to save rare and endangered whale species, such as blue whales, fin whales, and north atlantic right whales, off the east coast, california, hawaii, and the gulf coast; and a campaign to protect marine mammals from routine navy training exercises. en14 strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. our ocean work will focus on high-tech fishing trawlers and lethal sonar noises, two grave threats to many ocean species, including sea turtles and whales. most recently in this area, nrdc helped secure a treaty to limit bottom- trawling fishing, which protects more than 16 million square miles of the pacific ocean from unregulated, destructive bottom trawling. our forest work led to the protection of more than 11 million acres of north american forests— roughly the area of five yellowstone national parks—in southeast alaska and in the canadian boreal. and in the arctic, nrdc is currently fighting in court to stop shell’s oil and gas development in sensitive areas (in september 2011, nrdc sued to block shell’s drilling plan; in october 2011 nrdc appealed shell’s pollution permits; and in january 2013, the interior department reviewed shell’s arctic drilling activities). also, nrdc is trying to stop global mining giants who want to develop the world’s largest open-pit gold and copper mines in alaska’s bristol bay wilderness. en15 number of iucn red list species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. from polar bears and gray whales to buffalo and migratory birds, extraordinary species of wildlife are being threatened by industrialization, overhunting, or reckless population management practices. through our biogems program, nrdc’s advocacy team joins forces with online activists and local partners to defend some of our hemisphere’s most imperiled species and their habitats. nrdc is currently working to protect more than 50 endangered or threatened species (either directly or by protecting key habitat areas), including the following: united states atlantic sturgeon (endangered) bighorn sheep (endangered) (various species) bison (iucn list near threatened) central valley steelhead (threatened) coastal california gnatcatcher (threatened) columbia and snake river salmon (and steelhead) (varies, listings include threatened and endangered) condor (endangered) cook inlet beluga whale (endangered) delta smelt (threatened) desert pupfish (fed endangered) desert tortoise (threatened) flat-tailed horned lizard (threatened) gray bat (endangered) gray wolf (endangered) greater sage grouse (candidate) green sturgeon (threatened) grizzly bear (endangered) gunnison sage grouse (proposed endangered) hawaiian false killer whale (endangered) indiana bat (endangered) interior least tern (endangered) kirtland’s warbler (endangered) lesser prairie chicken (proposed threatened) longfin smelt (candidate) mohave chui tub (fed endangered) mojave fringe-toed lizard (iucn least concern) owens pupfish (fed endangered) piping plover (endangered) polar bear (threatened) queen charlotte goshawk (threatened) sage grouse (candidate) southern resident orca (endangered) spring run chinook salmon (threatened) tidewater goby (endangered) whitebark pine (candidate) whooping crane (endangered) winter run chinook salmon (endangered) yuma clapper rail (fed endangered) chile: patagonian huemul (deer) (iucn endangered) chilean pudu (tiny deer) (iucn vulnerable) southern river otter (iucn endangered) mexico: cabo pulmo national park olive ridley sea turtle (iucn vulnerable) leatherback turtle (iucn critically endangered) hawksbill turtle (iucn critically endangered) loggerhead sea turtle (iucn endangered) black turtle laguna san ignacio western gray whale (iucn critically endangered) canada (kxl pipeline): american burying beetle (endangered) whooping crane (endangered) north atlantic right whale (endangered) fin whale (endangered) killer whale (endangered) blue whale (endangered) humpback whale (endangered) steller sea lion (endangered)