 up to 40 percent of all food waste in the united states goes uneaten- wasting not only the calories and the cost. of a tossed meal but also the water, energy, land, and labor that went into growing, transporting, and storing it. meanwhile, one in eight americans struggles to put food on the table. nrdc sparked a national dialogue about the alarming amount of food that goes to waste in our country back in 2012. now we're working at the city level to tackle this paradox of simultaneous excess and scarcity. ''cities are uniquely qualified to reduce food waste," says darby hoover, a senior resource specialist at nrdc. they set up and pay for the waste management systems in this country, so they want to keep those costs down. they also care about feeding their hungry and reaching climate goals." to help on all three fronts, nrdc has developed a comprehensive strategy and digital resources that provide concrete suggestions for cities looking to address food waste locally, as well as flexibility in shipping solutions to a metropolitan area's unique needs. the tool kit also focuses on a key first barrier. understanding the scope of the problem ... we essentially want cities to do what nrdc did in our initial research figure out how much waste there really is and where it's coming from,"' hoover says. the data can then infonn strategies to address the problem, such as redistributing surplus food from restaurants with soup kitchens or introducing a landfill ban on food scraps. critically, the tool kit is designed to reduce waste before it's even created. "'.many cities think of composting or anaerobic digestion first when it comes to food waste but these are actually the last lines of defense," hoover says. tactics to address food waste at its sources include launching public awareness campaigns -with the help of nrdc's save the food advertisements and community outreach materials to educate city residents about how to shop smarter and prepare and store items properly so they last longer, for example, and offering financial incentives to consumers in the form of a pay as you throw trash system. other times, solutions wok to unite city government officials across various departments to come up with food rescue tactics. "food waste is not a siloed issue that only affects waste management' hoover points out. several cities are already piloting these strategies. in denver, where restaurants are estimated to generate one fourth of the city's food waste, nrdc's food matters project is teaming up with dining establishments to ensure that good food ends up on people's plates rather than in landfills. last spring, eight restaurants in the highlands neighborhood participated in a pilot program that involved waste auditing. composting education, and sharing strategies on food waste prevention (such as changing ordering practices and creating new recipes that rely on food scraps). and 10 restaurants in the south pearl street neighborhood embarked on a similar project this past fall. meanwhile, in baltimore, the food matters partnership with the city's office of sustainability-and with funding provided by the rockefeller foundation-helped establish a food scraps collection point at a downtown farmers' market. by last fall, shoppers had dropped off more than 10,000 pounds of food waste, which market vendors hauled back to their farms and turned into animaj feed and nutrient-rich compost for crops. simultaneously, the partnership is supporting 11 local nonprofits to help advance food waste prevention strategies. 'the youth-run baltimore compost collective at the filbert street community garden used its grant to purchase a truck to more efficiently collect and transport food scraps, which in turn creates employment opportunities for youth in a high-crime and food-insecure area. ''not only can we transform food scraps into soil, but we can also give opportunities for young people to do entrepreneurial work," says marvin hayes, program director, who sees the garden as a model for what can be achieved on a larger scale. "'collectively, we can move baltimore toward zero waste." building on the momentum of the tool kit and our work in pilot cities, nrdc hosted the inaugural food matters city summit in new york city in february 2019 and a second in denver in november. in both cities, local leaders came together to share ideas and best practices around food waste reduction. nrdc plans to take this collaboration a step further this year by launching a virtual knowledge-sharing network for city leaders to stay up-to-date on food waste work around the country. as maddie keating, lead nrdc food waste expert in denver, says, "'we're helping support and connect the incredible existing ecosystems of people already doing food work in their communities."'