 directing aid to the developing world. norway and germany. at the nature conservancy we know how dependent people are on healthy natural environments. we also recognize that it is often the world’s poorest who suffer the most when natural resources such as forests and coral reefs are damaged or lost. many of the world’s governments also realize this. that’s why over the last eight years we’ve been working with governments in europe to achieve shared conservation goals around the world, including the norwegian agency for development cooperation (norad) and kfw, a german government-owned development bank. since 2008, european governments have generously contributed nearly $150 million to help the conservancy address some of the world’s most pressing conservation threats in places like the caribbean, south america, africa and asia pacific. for instance, in 2015, thanks to a grant from the government of norway, the conservancy and other partners contributed to reducing deforestation by 73 percent in the são félix do xingu municipality, in the amazon basin of brazil, compared with the average forest clearing of the 10 years prior to the grant. informing the climate agreement paris, france. for months—and years—leading up to the united nations cop21 climate talks in paris in december 2015, the nature conservancy played a key role in providing crucial support that resulted in a landmark agreement by 195 nations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and limit global temperature increase threshold to well below 2 degrees celsius. the paris agreement demonstrated the conservancy’s ability to leverage our leading science on coastal resilience and forest carbon, our world-class projects on reducing tropical deforestation, our innovative finance skills, and our expertise in multilateral negotiations to ensure a truly global agreement and to maximize opportunities for nature’s contributions to mitigation and adaptation. beyond the formal negotiations, we hosted workshops showcasing technical advances, published influential position papers, and coordinated with key stakeholders to both promote nature as a potent solution provider and shift the global narrative on climate to one of opportunity, prosperity and security. since cop21, the paris agreement has reached the ratification threshold for entry into force in october 2016, and tnc programs around the world are working diligently to keep climate action moving forward. introducing water sharing investment. stockholm, sweden. for nearly half of the world’s population, water scarcity is a growing issue with devastating impacts on communities, economies and nature. in the past, countries have primarily turned to reservoirs and canals as solutions to increasing water demands. but water markets can be a powerful mechanism for alleviating water scarcity, restoring ecosystems and driving sustainable water management. water markets are based upon water rights, which can be bought and sold, enabling water to be transferred from one user to another. a well-managed water market provides economic flexibility, encourages water-saving measures, and brings a variety of stakeholders to the table to find balance between the water needs of people and nature. so the concept was introduced by the nature conservancy at the 2015 world water week in stockholm, sweden. this year at the stockholm event, the conservancy followed up with a report, water share: using water markets and impact investment to drive sustainability (nature.org/watershare). the conservancy’s concept of water sharing investment partnerships can help provide a more water-secure future for cities, agriculture, industries and nature.