 the nature conservancy’s ambitious vision requires that we work smarter and with greater urgency than ever. that’s why in operations we’re doing everything we can to make it easier to get conservation done everywhere we work. we’re developing technology that provides quick access to conservation and financial information and enables practitioners to evaluate the effectiveness of our initiatives as they progress. we’re streamlining our financial systems and processes so that resources get to priority projects faster. we’re improving the ways we connect internally to maximize collaboration and knowledge sharing, and we’re evolving the way we manage risks to keep pace with a rapidly changing global environment. operations is also transforming the way we communicate with and motivate the public to support our mission by helping lead the overhaul of our online platform, nature.org, and the development of other digital communication platforms. we are also investing deeply in the tnc team. our people must have the skills and abilities to help us succeed in a challenging environment that requires that we work more globally and collaboratively than ever. beyond our robust diversity, equity and inclusion program, we are building a continuous learning culture to grow stronger leaders to deploy for our greatest priorities. transforming how tnc works to make it easier to get conservation done is vital, but not an easy task. from our finance, human resources, it and diversity teams to legal, risk, ethics, and internal communications, we have asked for strategies, structures, systems and skills to evolve, and evolve fast, to better meet tnc’s needs. our people have risen to the occasion and are all committed to meeting tnc’s ambitious goals at this pivotal time for our world. through the generosity of our donors we are able to make investments that are critical to transforming how we work so that tnc can deliver on its goals. six years ago i joined tnc because it’s an organization that can execute against its important mission. i have the fortune of working with nearly 4,000 colleagues worldwide who prove every day their commitment and ability to change the world. i look forward to what we can do in the future in collaboration with each other, our supporters and partners worldwide.