 the caribbean basin is one of the world’s epicenters of biological diversity. it is also one of earth’s most challenging wild places to protect and preserve. more than 115 islands and 28 nations, each with its own biology and culture, make up the caribbean basin. and across this vast and colorful swathe of land and sea, a multitude of threats encroach, from industry and cruise-ship tourism, to pop- ulation and urban sprawl, to incompatible agriculture and fishing. conservation success in this unique and threatened area requires innovative science and collaboration—strengths the conservancy is already using to effect positive change. in 2003 the conservancy initiated the region’s first broad, science- based conservation assessment—in geographic scope, one of the largest ever undertaken. by 2004, the effort had produced the most comprehensive, seamless database ever assembled for the area, for the first time enabling conservation action on a scale that matches the enormous scope and diversity of the caribbean. this state-of-the-art database incor- porates cutting-edge, satellite-based technologies that enable conservation planners to visualize, manipulate, and analyze high-resolution spatial data across broad areas. designed to incorporate new information dynamically, the system allows flexible updates and provides strategic direction on-the-fly—a departure from past plans based on static maps and rigid strategies. the conservancy and other organizations involved in the caribbean assessment are now sharing their database, results, and tools at no cost with any local parties —governments, tourist associations, industry, other conservation organiza- tions—that are committed to applying these tools for noncommercial purposes. these arrangements have enabled the conservancy to pursue partnership opportunities and form new alliances with national governments across the caribbean. by working with scientists and government officials from haiti and the dominican republic, the conservancy is developing the first comprehensive conservation blueprint for hispaniola, an island shared by the two nations. although haiti and the dominican republic share a watershed and other ecological linkages, they have never before partnered on conservation. similarly, the jamaican government is using ecoregional assessment maps to revise the plan for its system of national protected areas, paying new attention to the variety of ecosystems in the area as well as opportunities for ecological connectivity. in the virgin islands, the conservancy is working with the british virgin islands national parks trust to significantly expand its network of marine protected areas. the resulting network will serve as a model for managing marine protected areas throughout the region. in addition, the conservancy is working with the u.s. virgin islands department of agriculture and the u.s. forest service legacy program to protect 2,300 acres of coastal woodlands, dry tropical and moist forests on st. croix, u.s. virgin islands.