 more than two years since president trump announced his intention to withdraw the united states from the historic paris agreement and in the face of continued federal inaction on the climate crisis, cities in the united states are accelerating their own climate action plans. the american cities climate challenge, a $70 million initiative launched by bloomberg philanthropies in partnership with nrdc and other organizations, is helping 25 cities get those plans off the ground. from helping to make transportation more sustainable in austin to improving energy efficiency in apartments across los angeles, the program is ensuring cities can meet ambitious carbon reduction goals. ''our communities are depending on us for action, and we're going to deliver," says christina angelides, director of the american cities climate challenge at nrdc. the mayors are very passionate about this because they're on the frontline of engaging with communities that have been hit really hard by the impacts of climate change. they intimately understand what's at stake-and because of that, there's a strong ,willingness to take action." to rein in greenhouse gas emissions from urban buildings and transportation sectors, nrdc built a staff of 30 climate advisors working directly with the 25 challenge cities, plus a team of city strategists (each of whom oversees a regional grouping of cities) and technical strategists (specializing in transportation, buildings, and energy) who assist the challenge participants in meeting their goals. ''nrdc's role is really to provide best in class policy expertise and sharp environmental advocacy," angelides says of the team, which is overseen by nrdc staffers kimi narita, amanda eaken, and chris wheat. the advisors have experience in a wide range of sectors, from corporations to foundations to government, but all have a vested interest in seeing their respective cities meet their goals. additionally, wheat notes, the climate advisors all share a strong commitment to equity and approach the work through that lens. that's clear in recent developments they have helped advance for residents of six low-income communities in columbus, ohio. members of these communities pay between 6 and 10 percent of their annual incomes on residential heating and electricity, as opposed to the average of 3.5 percent in the united states. with nrdc support, city officials have taken the first step in tackling this disparity and lowering energy bills for these residents by assessing the energy efficiency of their homes, with a goal to conduct 30,000 home energy audits by december 2020. after inspectors identify opportunities for improvement such as replacing drafty windows or doors or outmoded appliances- residents will get help making the needed efficiency upgrades. "'part of our goal in the challenge is to help cities engage a broader range of stakeholders and devise more ambitious policy measures than what's in their comfort zone," wheat says. ''and we're particularly prioritizing equity to ensure they're bringing all voices to the table." with that mission in mind, nrdc advisors recently worked with transportation officials on a bicycling initiative in san jose, california, as they reached out to community organizations in neighborhood where biking can feei dangereous. already, to reduce the number of cars on its streets, the city has added 10 miles of protected bike lanes in just the past year and is planning for more. as this work expands, san jose officials want to consider the needs of a wide spectrum of current and potential bikers. to that end, the city is partnering with latinos united for a new america and the vietnamese voluntary foundation to collect local input on barriers to biking and how the city can help. through these partnerships, says nrdc city strategist elizabeth stampe, "the city is trying to hear from people who may be too busy to come to city hall on a weekday evening to speak up." in turn, she says. "the diverse communities in san jose are making themselves heard and making their government accountable to them." while the climate challenge is already making huge strides by setting some of the country's most ambitious projects in motion, the effort is really just beginning. the bloomberg philanthropies grant runs through december 2020, but angelides notes that delivering on each city's individual climate action goals will take sustained investment and support. ''nrdc is in this work with cities for the long haul," she says.