 in his fateful announcement in the rose garden withdrawing the united states from the paris climate agreement, president trump worked his populist rhetoric into one of the speech’s most infamous blunders: “i was elected to represent the citizens of pittsburgh, not paris.” on twitter, pittsburgh’s mayor, bill peduto, whose rust belt city voted overwhelmingly for hillary clinton, wasted no time in firing back: “as the mayor of pittsburgh, i can assure you that we will follow the guidelines of the paris agreement for our people, our economy & future.” meanwhile, the citizens of pittsburgh were organizing. in august, following a wave of intense heat and air-quality warnings, they joined their state representative for a citizens’ hearing to discuss their concerns about local climate impacts and to learn from a local resilience officer about how to push for a clean energy future. many of the attendees had found out about the event through all in (allin.nrdc.org), nrdc’s new grassroots advocacy platform, which rallies citizens across the country to show up for marches, town hall meetings, and public hearings in support of environmental action. all in allows nrdc to home in on members in places where they can swing into action and make an on-the-ground difference at the right moment. nrdc launched all in to build on the outpouring of support for our mission following election day, which yielded a record-breaking 25 percent growth in our member and activist base, uniting three million individuals. in addition to informing members of local events in their area, all in shares petitions, offers updates (via email and text alerts) on key environmental battles that nrdc is engaged in, and encourages members to make phone calls to decision makers. through the platform, we also coach activists on how to host outreach events in their own communities, such as volunteer phone-bank meetups—even providing tips for hosting such gatherings. nrdc’s approach of fostering city- and state-level action in the face of federal inaction is already seeing success. the hearing in pittsburgh teed up an update to the city’s climate action plan, which lists pittsburgh’s strategies and goals to curb emissions, including the complete transition to renewable energy sources for municipal operations by 2030. event organizers also filmed the discussion and sent the recording directly to the white house and to u.s. environmental protection agency (epa) administrator scott pruitt. amplifying local voices to influence decision makers even within the trump administration is one of nrdc’s chief goals in mobilizing grassroots action—and it appears to be working. in november, a group of all in members came together at a clean power plan hearing in charleston, west virginia, which, at the time, was the epa’s only scheduled public hearing on the administration’s proposed repeal of the plan. though nrdc has supporters in every state, for this hearing, nrdc focused on rallying its members specifically from west virginia. “we felt that those individuals—their presence, their words—would make the biggest difference,” says nrdc senior campaign manager claire morgenstern. in response to the outreach, nrdc activist amy scott, a native west virginian, testified, focusing on the dirty legacy of coal mining and the importance of supporting renewable energy. scott noted that she spoke in the third hearing room at the west virginia capitol complex—not only did the event require multiple rooms to accommodate the crowd, but the epa also added a second hearing day. after that event, the agency eventually scheduled three more hearings in san francisco; kansas city, missouri; and gillette, wyoming, in response to public demand. the devotion and enthusiasm nrdc’s superactivists have shown through their response to the all in calls to action are inspiring. across the country, they are standing at the ready to defend our climate, public lands, waters, and health wherever and whenever they are at risk—for example, rallying in salt lake city in support of protecting the bears ears and grand staircase-escalante national monuments on the same week that president trump announced plans to shrink their size. “with all in, we asked ourselves how far our members will go to take actions on issues they care about,” morgenstern says. “the answer is, pretty far.”