 spearheading our campaign to end iceland’s illegal slaughter of whales, taryn represented nongovernmental organizations as a member of the u.s. delegation at the annual meeting of the international whaling commission (iwc) in jersey, channel islands. for more news about whales, follow taryn’s blog at www.nrdc.org/switchboard. why is this whale campaign so urgent? since 2006 iceland has killed hundreds of whales, in defiance of the global ban on commercial whaling. they have shown time and again that they will not stop for anything short of sanctions. fortunately, working closely with actor and marine mammal activist pierce brosnan, we’ve been able to mobilize our members and online activists to escalate pressure on the obama administration at several critical junctures. president obama took a key first step by imposing diplomatic sanctions, but we’re still urging him to impose tough economic sanctions on icelandic seafood companies with direct ties to the whaling industry. what was the most exciting aspect of the iwc meeting? i got a behind-the-scenes look as u.s. officials were finalizing their decision to recommend sanctions against iceland under conservation legislation known as the pelly amendment. the final wording of their decision clearly states that iceland’s whaling practices are unacceptable. in addition, we were able to pass a resolution, put forth by the united kingdom, aimed at strengthening transparency and the overall effectiveness of the iwc. why are whales so captivating to you? whales are extremely powerful and intelligent, and yet so vulnerable. they were decimated by commercial whaling. plus, i grew up in the 1970s with that famous slogan “save the whales.” when the international moratorium on commercial whaling took effect in 1986, many whale populations rebounded. but now, it’s as if we’re in a second phase of the save the whales campaign. iceland, japan, and norway continue to kill whales. meanwhile, entanglements, underwater noise, seismic activities, and marine debris are on the rise. together, these hazards are taking a serious toll.