 we asked some of our newest trustees what excites them the most about joining nrdc's board, especially at such a pivotal moment in history. catherine flowers founder, center for rural enterprise and environmental justice i am excited to be part of nrdc's board of trustees and hope to be able to bring clarity to the role of the organization in bringing forth environmental and climate justice. nrdc can use its resources to partner with marginalized communities to empower them to pursue climate and environmental justice. julia louis-dreyfus actress/producer we've been going through a time of suffering and multiple crises-but it is also a time of opportunity to address the intersectionality of social justice, environmental justice, and climate. they are inextricably linked. the messaging of the environmental movement has been missing this link, but nrdc has the expertise, the pas- sion, the drive, and the smarts to recognize that connection and come up with solutions to tackle more environmental challenges holistically. i've always been an environmentalist because i feel a real responsibility to leave a livable, healthy, planet for my kids-and that desire has only grown for me and for so many others as we've all witnessed the calamities of this past year. diana propper de callejon managing director, cranemere inc. nrdc has always understood that the sustained well-being and prosperity for all people is dependent on the health of the planet and our shared ecosystems. never has this been more clear. nroc is focused on our biggest challenges-climate change, equity, and social justice-which are also our biggest opportunities for creating a better world. i am proud to have joined nrdc's board of trustees to support and advance the organization's amazing staff and work. elena rios, m.d. president and ceo national hispanic medical association. as a latina who grew up in the los angeles basin during the 1950s, when all families burned their own trash in backyard incinerators, and in the '60s, when the smog was horrendous, i've seen how environmental policies can improve air quality. from early on, i was dedicated to increasing health equity, especially as i learned about how low~income neighborhoods, latinos, black people, and native americans have been marginalized as patients- and i witnessed firsthand diseases in our communities caused by environmental toxins. this is why i look forward to serving on nrdc's board of trustees: to continue to build a great organization that advocates for evidence~based policies to counter climate change and to better the health of our latino, black, native american, and other vulnerable communities. dan yates executive chairman dandelion. geothermal i'm thrilled by the opportunity to play a role in guiding one of the world's most important environmental organizations at a uniquely important time. never has it been more important than now to shape the future through the lens of environmental stewardship and justice, and no other group else is better positioned to do this than nrdc.