 you help ensure that the issues, nrdc fights for are covered in major media outlets. ls it difficult to interest reporters in these topics? it's no longer a heavy lift to persuade beat reporters to cover the climate crisis, especially when we have something new to convey, whether it's factual data or a fresh perspective. on climate and most other environmental issues, health remains the single~best tried•and•true lever. with reporters who have less experience covering our issues, it's helpful to provide them access to the voices and faces of real people affected by a problem we want to see highlighted. we also try to instill in them a sense of competition-that other reporters may already be on to the story and therefore they risk being scooped. the most important tactic we have is to continue hammering on benefits and solutions. we paint a picture of why everybody will benefit from actions that slow stop, and reverse climate change-highlighting the economic gains, the jobs created, improved public health, and personal property protected. as certain political figures continue talking about the climate "debate." do you find yourself engaging in that debate with reporters? most journalists no longer inject the he said she said false equivalence regarding climate science into their stories. thank goodness. there .also seems to be an almost planetary alignment helping to keep climate change a top story: hearings and legislation in the house of representatives, fossil fuel companies professing to support carbon pricing, republicans speaking out on climate action, and growing support for a carbon dividend. even the federal reserve is warning about the coming economic hit because of climate change. undergirding all of that is the overwhelming public support for strong climate action. how has the media landscape evolved in your 10 years at nrdc to lnclude more coverage of the environment? what do you consider your biggest: victories in this regard? the diversity and proliferation of new media outlets have become staggering in velocity-it's almost impossible to keep track. so even with the shrinkage of mainstream media, additional options like utility dive, wonkette, or mongabay, for example, provide us with a near--endless array of potential outlets for our messaging efforts. when it comes to the mainstream media, we continue to deploy a belt and suspenders approach: targeting the top markets-the new york times, the washington post, the associated press, national public radio, etc.-and then watching the information flow downward. we also target the trade press at the bottom of the media food chain and let the information bubble up. you were a white house correspondent before coming to nrdc. now you're on the other side of the fence. as an advocate looking for catnip. did you take any lessons with you when you crossed that divide? timing is everything. after the waxman- martkey cap and--trade bill [aka the american clean energy and security act) died in the senate in 2010, many environmental groups continued talking as if the bill still had life and doggedly pressed the media to cover the issue. even as obama shifted his focus to health-care reform, some climate activists continued lobbying us, thus coming across as clueless or in denial, wjth their reputations taking something of a beating. so we've learned the importance of shifting focus when you can't break through on a certain issue. 'this often depends on an agile pivot from some news event or development, whether that's an extreme weather incident or a game-changing ipcc report. the key is getting ahead of the curve-alerting reporters in advance to such points of inflection and letting them know to expect input from us. another example is using the united nations climate summit or the green new deal as a peg for all kinds of messaging. because we've been able to sculpt coverage this way, i can say that among the washington press corps, nrdc leads the pack when it comes to credibility judgment, and authoritativeness.