 many people blame los angeles’s notoriously clogged freeways for its smog problem. what should they know about the role of its ports? melissa lin perrella: in the 1980s, los angeles was known for the thick haze that just hung over the city. today it still ranks as the most ozone-polluted metro area in the country, but it’s significantly cleaner than it once was. cars contribute, of course, but the ports are actually the largest contributor to l.a.’s smog problem. to give you a sense of their size, the los angeles and long beach ports, which are neighbors, make up the san pedro bay complex—the ninth-busiest container port complex in the world. it handled almost a third of the country’s containerized trade in 2017. when we talk about the traffic at the port, we aren’t just referring to the ships, which emit diesel exhaust, but also to the trucks and trains and equipment that transport all the goods. how has your work made a dent in l.a.’s air pollution? it started back in the 1990s, when the port of los angeles proposed expanding its china shipping terminal. we already knew the health impacts from diesel exhaust—the elevated risks of heart disease, of asthma, of cancer. residents were concerned and came to us for help. so with a coalition, nrdc challenged the expansion. we proved that the port violated the california environmental quality act by not disclosing how the project would impact health and by not doing anything to minimize that impact. the settlement that came out of that fight included a much cleaner version of the original project. environmentalists and the surrounding communities took on one of california’s largest economic engines—and won. it was a wake-up call for the ports that they could no longer do business as usual. after our lawsuit, the ports began adopting—for the first time— clean air policies and health goals. that work continues today. who are your main allies in this fight? it’s not just environmentalists that are paying attention to port pollution. it’s really the frontline communities, the ones affected. about 900,000 people live in the area surrounding the ports, called the los angeles harbor region. almost two- thirds are people of color. they’re deeply invested in this fight because even with the progress we’ve made, they still have higher cancer rates from diesel pollution than residents else- where. and industry is still pushing for new polluting port projects right by schools and homes even though cleaner alternatives exist. nrdc would not have seen as much suc- cess as it has over the past 20 years had it not been for these residents, who know the ports are putting their families at risk and have let every politician hear about it. we’re also working within coalitions. the moving for- ward network has been instrumental. it’s a national coalition that works to reduce the public health impacts of our freight transportation system. nrdc is a proud member. we’re working alongside community organizations, universities, faith-based groups, and other advocates. the only way we’ll get there is if everyone feels invested and everyone brings what they can to the table. what’s your next goal? recently, nrdc and its coalition partners persuaded the mayors of los angeles and long beach to sign a joint executive directive that set the goal of 100 percent zero-emissions trucks serving the ports by 2035 and all zero-emissions cargo handling equipment by 2030. keep in mind there are about 13,000 trucks that make multiple trips to the ports every day. we are now working to ensure the ports take the necessary actions to make these goals a reality. while this is a local story about cleaning up two ports, could it offer lessons for others facing similar issues? yes! innovative technologies and policies are being adopted in los angeles and long beach, and ports around the world are watching. we’re changing the industry. community members and government officials regularly reach out to nrdc for advice. with that said, we still have a lot of work to do. we are constantly holding the ports’ feet to the fire. our work won’t be done until we have clean air to breathe.