 2011 was a milestone year for the nature conservancy, marking the conclusion of our first 60 years. we have celebrated our successful history this year, but i am eager to get on with our future. it will be a challenging future, one that demands us to work smarter, bigger and faster. at our founding in 1951, the 2.6 billion people who inhabited the earth were grappling with the challenges of a changing, postwar world. by 2051, when we celebrate our 100th anniversary, the global population will have more than tripled to upwards of 9 billion people, putting ever more pressure on the natural world to provide the food, water and stable climate on which all life depends. that challenge means working on a much larger scale, and it means not just protecting pristine places, but helping people be more productive on existing working lands and waters, so the conversion of intact lands can be minimized. and it means testing and proving new strategies that can then be rapidly expanded to similar places worldwide. the clock is ticking. for the conservancy, the key challenge is to demonstrate that our mission is not a “special interest”; it is of crucial interest to everyone. we must engage more people from all walks of life in our work and demonstrate the value of nature to an increasingly urban populace often far removed from the nature that sustains them. we must build productive partnerships with the range of private and public institutions that have the greatest potential to affect change on a global scale with us. and we must cultivate and inspire the next generation of conservationists around the world to carry the torch forward. 2011 was a successful year for the conservancy, but each achievement grew from the innovations that preceded it over our 60-year past. similarly, our future depends on the generosity of our current family of supporters as well as the next generations of philanthropists you produce, recruit and inspire. we are extremely grateful for your ongoing partnership with us. but more than ever, we count on you also to help bring more and diverse allies into the fold. the “generations” theme of this annual report is both a tribute to those who made our history possible and those who will ensure the conservancy’s future. it’s a testament of hope to future generations and the healthy natural world they will steward.