 as i reflect on my first full year as the president of the nature conservancy, i am proud of all that we accomplished in 2009. thanks to many generous supporters who have stuck with us through uncertain economic times, we were able to conserve habitats around the world at record scale and to advance action on climate change in a particularly crucial year. the success stories highlighted in this report exemplify a conservancy attribute that helps us maximize our impact: the connectivity of our work. at our core is a drive to be much more than the sum of our individual programs and projects. we continuously pursue new ideas, strategies and solutions that can be tested in one place and replicated in others. and we collaborate to achieve results far beyond what we could accomplish alone. this drive pushes us to tap collective brainpower in pursuit of solutions that are richer for the collaboration. it enables us to maximize conservation returns on donated dollars. and it makes us more effective and more efficient. over the last year, i have seen this connectivity firsthand. in mongolia, i saw vast, unspoiled grasslands, much like those in colorado and wyoming. this year, we expanded our partnership with the mongolian government by sharing conservation strategies developed through our work in the western united states. in illinois, i saw the rebirth of a once-thriving wetland at emiquon preserve, one of our premier demonstration sites for wetland restoration efforts around the globe. and in california, i met marine staff who pioneered our efforts to purchase fishing vessels and permits and work alongside fishermen to develop sustainable harvesting practices—an innovative strategy we are now bringing to the gulf of maine. this connectivity also can be a powerful driver of pro-conservation public policy. the conservancy launched a groundbreaking pilot project in bolivia in 1997 to test the efficacy of using forest conservation as a market-based tool to reduce carbon emissions. today, i see that project informing climate negotiations, instilling confidence in innovative strategies and encouraging forward-thinking governments to make significant new investments in forest protection. furthermore, those early tests have led to the development of similar projects in california, brazil and indonesia, which i believe are among the most ambitious and important large-scale forest-carbon projects in the world. few conservancy projects exist in a vacuum. they connect across continents and oceans and with those supporters dedicated to our mission. such conservation connectivity is necessary in a globalized world. it’s our best hope to escalate the scope, scale and pace of conservation action and innovation that our changing world demands.