 nrdc is known for tackling the biggest environmental challenges facing the planet. how does food fit into our work? in the past 40 years, we’ve made our air and water cleaner, but our food system has gotten dirtier. food and agriculture affect everything. the system uses more land, more water—and pollutes more water—than any other human activity. it’s a big source of climate pollution. food has huge impacts on the planet as well as very personal impacts on our health. you are what you eat—everyone knows that. how did you come to realize that there was a need for this program? what motivated you to create it? people think about food all the time, so it’s a great way to introduce them to our issues. my family became vegetarian in the ’90s, when i was at nrdc suing feedlots for water pollution and my daughter was learning about the impacts of diet at school. so it’s been at the back of my mind for a while that food is this critical intersection where health and environmental concerns meet. i’m lucky i also see these issues from the point of view of a farmer. i’ve helped run a coffee farm and other farms in costa rica for 20 years, so i’m sympathetic to the challenges of farming. it’s tough, and climate change and the commodity markets make it tougher. in the past, nrdc’s food-related work usually focused on getting the worst pesticides out of produce or suing the worst polluters. the idea was to step back and look at the system—to find drivers of polluting behavior and try to change those. if we can change policy incentives, financing opportunities, and market drivers, we can create a more sustainable food system that will benefit both farmers and consumers. how important is public engagement to reforming the food system? it’s a tremendous opportunity—and a tremendous challenge. consumers make choices about food three times a day, so the average person has a big role to play in shaping our food system. consumers have already helped push chains like chipotle and panera to serve more sustainably produced foods, and they’re driving down antibiotics use in the livestock industry. they’re succeeding where the u.s. food and drug administration has failed. the challenge is, how do we reach all these people in a focused and thoughtful way? we have to engage on a scale that is commensurate with the challenge of changing a system that is so fundamental and established. how have you approached finding funding for this work? people are excited about food, and we’re tapping into that feeling of connection and ownership that food inspires. rather than a top-down strategy, our approach has been finding partners who can help shape our work. together, we’ve identified so many different levers to pull, whether it’s on policies like school food purchasing or federal crop insurance, or public campaigns on food waste, or benchmarking practices for farmers. the overall challenge is huge, but there are specific pieces that are winnable, and that makes this work exciting. reducing food waste or antibiotics in animal feed, improving school lunches, or expanding soil-conservation techniques are real achievements that people can point to and be proud of. what do you envision for the program in the coming years? it’s very much a work-in-progress, because the possibilities are so numerous. but we’ll certainly continue to work on eliminating incentives and subsidies for farming the wrong crops in the wrong way in the wrong places, as we see in some provisions in the farm bill and elsewhere. we’ll also keep creating opportunities for learning about and financing sustainable practices. we have a lot of work to do to create confidence in different and better approaches to farming. we also envision engaging more in agricultural issues internationally.