 science provides a critical cornerstone for identifying and solving our most urgent environ- mental challenges. yet over the past two decades, science has been under attack: public trust in science and key scientific theories has been eroded, and in the political arena, science is now regularly distorted or ignored. in 2006, nrdc established the science center to enhance our scientific capacity, credibility, and visibility. working closely with our program staff to ensure our policy and legal positions are supported by sound and current science, the center helps advance our advocacy efforts across a range of priority issues. during the first five years of the science center, we hired top-notch scientists to tackle critical problems at the nexus of science and policy, including climate change, health impacts of toxic chemicals, and endangered species protection. we coordinated nrdc’s internal and external peer-review process to ensure the scientific accuracy and quality of our studies, reports, and publications. meanwhile, we raised our profile in the scientific community by publishing peer-reviewed journal articles and increasing our engagement at conferences, on advisory boards, and with professional societies such as the american association for the advancement of science. we built more effective working relationships with federal agencies like the u.s. fish and wildlife service and opened up new scientific collaborations with universities. in 2011, as political realities placed the fundamental framework of our environmental protections at risk, we repositioned the science center to meet this escalating challenge head-on. to lead the fight, we hired a new director, dr. christina (tina) swanson, who is nationally renowned for her leadership on environmental, biological, water quality, and water resource management issues. we also brought in three new science fellows: briana mordick, an expert in geology and petroleum engineering, who has been instrumental in our research on natural gas extraction; greg gould, a specialist in computer modeling of transportation systems and air pollution emissions, who has provided critical analyses for southern california and chicago-area highway and freight transport plans; and jordan weaver, a nuclear engineer with expertise in nuclear safety and radiation detection, whose work with us is especially timely after the fukushima dai-ichi disaster. over the next several years, the science center will continue to build its effectiveness by promoting internal collaboration among nrdc scientists and by establishing long-term relationships and partnerships with outside scientists and scientific institutions. we will also increase the diversity and effectiveness of our science communications with the addition of a science communications expert to the science center staff in 2012 and through the use of more short films, investigative journalism, and web-based media to reach broader audiences.