 bob wilson’s $100 million challenge grant—the single largest gift to conservation by an individual—has benefited hun- dreds of the nature conservancy’s projects around the world. this generous matching-grant program encouraged donors to extend their giving beyond state boundaries and to increase giving to conservation projects outside of the united states. since 1998 the conservancy has received almost 1,000 gifts that qualified for a matching grant. the wilson challenge reached its $100 million limit on december 9, 2005, sooner than expected due to the tremendous generosity of the conservancy’s donors and supporters. bob wilson likes a good challenge. well known for his success as a wall street investor, bob is also a generous philanthropist, who has launched sizeable challenge grants for his favorite charities, including the nature conservancy. bob joined the conservancy’s south fork- shelter island chapter on long island in 1962 and was an avid supporter of land acquisition as a way to protect natural areas. in the 1990s bob began working closely with conservancy presidents john sawhill and later steve mccormick to help move the organization forward and raise the sights of donors and staff alike. this vision saw the conservancy expanding its work beyond land acquisition and into freshwater and marine conservation, as well as working across state boundaries and outside of the united states. bob’s desire to advance the organization’s global mission led him to create the wilson challenge. he saw the challenge as an opportunity to encourage donors to think beyond their own backyards. his initial $10 million challenge grant launched in 1998 was so successful in raising money for conservancy projects, that over the past seven years, he increased his challenge tenfold to $100 million. bob hopes the success of the wilson challenge will inspire others to come forward with similar challenges. given the number of projects that have benefited from the wilson challenge, it will take years to understand the full impact of this challenge on the conservancy’s work around the world. almost a quarter of a billion dollars has been mobilized to achieve the nature conservancy’s mission. thank you bob for your love of nature and your vision for conservation.