 the challenge: each day, some 36 ships travel through the panama canal. to float through the locks, each ship requires approximately 52 million gallons of fresh water, most of which come from the steep upland tropical rain forests of the panama canal watershed. this vital water source includes panama’s upper chagres region, a half-million-acre area beginning just north of panama city and home to the indigenous embera people and communities of local farmers. containing four of the six main rivers that feed the panama canal and provide drinking water for two nearby cities, the upper chagres region also encompasses 500,000-acre chagres national park. there, diverse species of flora and fauna abound, reflecting panama’s unique ecological niche as a land bridge between north and south america. however, increasing demands on the watershed from agriculture, industry, cattle ranches and urban development threaten the unique creatures that call chagres home—capybara, jaguar, mantled howler monkey and 560 species of birds—as well as the wildlife that panama shares with countries to the north and south. how we’re making a difference: to preserve the chagres river basin as a source of fresh water and a healthy tropical forest habitat, the nature conservancy is using an innovative conservation strategy known as a debt-for- nature swap under the u.s. tropical forest conservation act. in these transactions, the u.s. government forgives part of a developing country’s hard-currency debt; in exchange, the country pays an equal or greater amount to in-country forest conservation. with a $1.1 million contribution of funds raised privately by conservancy chapters, the u.s. government forgave $10 million of panama’s debt. in exchange, the government of panama will fund conservation in the chagres river basin in the amount of $10 million over the next 14 years. funds will focus on the protection of chagres national park and watershed and establish a $10 million endowment for the area. the chagres basin has been a conservancy project for several years. with panamanian partners, the conservancy created the $25 million ecological trust fund of panama (fideco). income from the fund finances panama park service activities and provides small grants to nongovernment conservation