 the recent win for vaquitas banned imports of mexican seafood caught with gillnets, which had been entangling these endangered porpoises. how long has your team been working toward this goal? giulia good stefani: it’s not often you get the opportunity with litigation to potentially save a species, and particu­larly a large­ brain social mammal like ourselves. it feels pretty special. nrdc’s marine mammal protection proj­ect has been working to protect the vaquita for a number of years. we brought this lawsuit about a year ago, after we’d tried various administrative avenues that didn’t spur agency action. the government is now fighting the litigation pretty hard—we have an appeal pending right now. but the mexi­can government is very eager to get the embargo lifted, and we take that as a good sign that they’re motivated to put the necessary safety regulations in place. how close are we to zero hour for this specific species? the vaquita is terrifyingly close to ex­tinction. two years ago, scientists esti­mated that there were 60 animals left and that the species is declining at the rate of half the population each year. our best guess is about 15 animals left now, but it may be less than 10 at this point. the most encouraging news we have is that about six vaquitas were recently sighted, including a female with a calf. there are few sightings, and fewer pho­tos of vaquitas, right? right, which is part of why the fight for vaquitas has been so hard. you have to show a human connection in what you’re litigating about. for an under­ water animal that’s been driven to extinction’s doorstep and is difficult to observe, that’s a challenge. what’s the next battle you’ll fight on behalf of our oceans? the vaquita fight isn’t over, and we’ll continue to defend the species. one thing, however, that keeps me up at night are the offshore oil and gas permits that the trump administration recently issued to for­ profit companies to explore for oil and gas reserves in atlantic waters, and the potential expansion of this activity on all our coasts (see page 58). but this admin­istration plays fast and loose with the law, and i look forward to seeing them in court. when you work that quickly and with that much disregard, you make a lot of mistakes.