 innovation has defined the nature conservancy since our founding in 1951, when a group of scientists broke with tradition and decided to take “direct action” to protect nature. as we enter our 60th year, we continue to pioneer strategies that promise to safeguard nature while bringing direct benefits to all living things that depend on it, especially people. and we look for innovations that can be replicated to expand conservation’s footprint exponentially around the world. “water funds” are just one example of an innovation that has the potential to positively impact nature on a continental scale. working with businesses, government agencies and local communities in ecuador, we developed and tested a self-funding mechanism that pays to protect watershed forests and grasslands that hold and filter water for quito’s citizens and businesses. already, more than a dozen latin american cities have adopted this successful approach to protecting their watersheds, and the conservancy is working across the continent to launch a total of 32 projects that will safeguard drinking water for 50 million people. the model is being adapted for application in the united states and other countries as well. this is the type of innovation with potential for replication that we need to get ahead of the threats to our natural world. but new tactics don’t replace the old; they augment them. in montana’s crown of the continent we are combining two of our oldest conservation tactics — land acquisition and partnering with government agencies — but implementing them on an unprecedented scale. ultimately, the private-public acquisition of 310,000 timberland acres, previously slated for subdivision, will keep a vast 10-million-acre mosaic of protected forest intact, a landscape that is vital to wildlife and local communities for grazing, sustainable forestry, hunting and fishing. in my second full year with the conservancy, i visited more than 15 of our project sites around the world. the spirit of hope and pace of innovation i witness impresses me every time — from the gulf of mexico, where our staff and partners have transformed a tragedy into an opportunity to restore and perpetuate a vast ecosystem on which millions of people depend, to the savannas of northern kenya, where conservancy science is helping empower pastoralist communities to be the saviors of 2 million acres of habitat for elephants, rhinos and other wildlife that share the landscape. 2010 was another successful year for the nature conservancy, building on advances of each previous year. ours is a heritage of innovation. through the generosity of our supporters, we succeed because we refuse to stand still. we, like nature, continually evolve.