 in my first full year serving as chair of nrdc, i’ve had the honor of having an up- close look at all that is required to make us the leader in protecting the environment and ensuring clean air, clean water, and healthy communities—and i’m continually humbled by your critical support. from representing our work at the global climate action summit in september to seeing the strategy behind our winning litigation, i’m proud to say that these challenging times have brought out the best from everyone in the organization, as measured by the successes we’ve achieved. our continued success doesn’t happen by chance. in the past year, we’ve faced an unprecedented level of assaults from the current presidential administration on our public lands, our wildlife, our health, and our future. to counter them, it has taken nrdc’s world-class litigation, steadfast advocacy, policy expertise, and meticulous science, in addition to a particular relentlessness and dogged pursuit of our guiding values—a healthy environment and a stable, livable, and equitable future for all. from what i’ve seen, nrdc has done a lot more than defend our air, our water, and our environment from these attacks; we’ve made great advances in our continued fight. our legal victories, including wins that protect endangered species such as elephants and the vaquita porpoise, have put a check on the administration’s destructive policies. our partnership with bloomberg philanthropies’ american cities climate challenge has provided strong evidence that the future of climate progress is necessarily intertwined with the abundance of economic opportunity. further, we’ve made strides in our strategic plan and expanded our role in new ways, thinking of opportunities to draw in new supporters and focusing our efforts on additional priorities, such as getting toxic chemicals out of our products. we’re not content to sit still, and i know that the board of trustees, as well as the staff, know exactly how to continue to rise to the challenges and move forward. this includes deepening our partnership with the american cities climate challenge to do as much as we can on climate at the city level in the absence of leadership from the federal gov- ernment. we’ll also leverage the relationships we have with states that are leading the way on climate policies, like my home state of california as well as colorado and illinois, particularly on clean energy—a huge piece of our strategy to stop the worst effects of cli- mate change. with every step, we’ll bring together the many players—from policymakers to activists to business leaders, here in the united states and internationally—who are needed to make real, lasting, and necessary change, and we’ll be all the stronger for it. these are extraordinary times and difficult circumstances, and nrdc is well- positioned to face these challenges. we will persevere in our fight—in concert with all our partners—to ensure a healthy planet and climate for everyone. we will not give up until we succeed, because our world and our future are too important. thank you for your tremendous support.