 with gratitude, humility, and hopefulness, i recently stepped into the role of chair of nrdc’s board of trustees. i am honored to have been asked to serve the organization in this way and to carry on the amazing legacy of my predecessor, dan tishman. like dan, and like you, i believe that the work we do— leading the charge against climate change, blocking polluters, protecting public health, and preserving wildlife and wild places—is beyond important: it’s absolutely critical to the future of our planet. this responsibility comes at a moment unlike any other in nrdc’s history. never before has there been such a concerted and sustained effort by a presidential administration to roll back crucial protections, deny science, and thwart the public will. thankfully, we’ve had nearly half a century to prepare for this moment. the scale of the current environmental and health crisis has galvanized us; the perseverance of our more than three million members has inspired us. we are more committed today than we have ever been to our mission of safeguarding the earth and all life upon it. since i joined the board in 1991, i’ve proudly watched nrdc adapt to meet new challenges and grow into the most effective environmental organization in the world. our combination of legal acumen, scientific rigor, policy expertise, and tenacious advocacy is what has always equipped us to take on the critical challenges facing our natural world—and to win. now, as we expand and intensify this fight under some of the most hostile conditions we’ve ever faced, i know we have what it takes to keep fighting, and to keep winning. i know this from more than 25 years of working with nrdc’s staff and my fellow trustees and witnessing their dedication firsthand. since the organization’s founding, this dedication has resulted in many of the key victories that have come to define the modern environmental movement, from the passage of the clean water act and the phaseout of leaded gasoline in the 1970s to more recent triumphs, such as curbing antibiotics use in livestock production, protecting our waterways from mercury pollution, and further weakening the illegal wildlife trade. as beneficial as these developments have been to the health of people and the planet, there are still those who would attempt to halt the progress we’ve made—taking us backward rather than forward. to keep our momentum, we’re going to have to reach out to new partners and communities and draw upon the unique strength that comes from solidarity. we need that added strength right now—the stakes have never been higher, but our resolve has never been greater. i look forward to working alongside all of you—and to the many impactful victories ahead.