 we are very proud of what we accomplished this past year. among other things, it was the first year that our total revenues exceeded $1 billion. but a focus on the numbers can obscure the scope, depth and impact of our conservation achievements in 2006. what is more important is how that money produced outstanding conservation results using increasingly effective approaches. a handful of examples sheds light on what we achieved. the nature conservancy was instrumental in persuading the global environment facility (gef), a creation of the world bank, to earmark $400 million to strengthen national park systems in developing nations. our team also convinced the gef to set aside $10 million to help 35 developing nations conduct scientific assessments of their biodiversity resources, based on our “conservation by design” methodology. the conservancy worked with fisherman and government regulators and became the first private organization to purchase pacific trawling permits and boats for conservation purposes. this trawler buyout off the coast of central california will help aid the recovery of depleted fish and other marine species in a 3.8-million -acre swath of ocean habitat. and it is one step toward turning a struggling commercial fishery into a more sustainable economic enterprise. we helped achieve a major victory for tropical forest conservation by facilitating one of the largest-ever debt-for-nature swaps, a vehicle through which the united states will cancel debt owed to it by the biodiversity-rich, but resource-poor, nation of guatemala in return for the guatemalan government committing $24.4 million for protection of its tropical forests. similarly, conservancy experience and resources helped leverage conservation commitments by island nations in micronesia to protect more than 200,000 square miles of marine areas—an area larger than the state of florida. these efforts were nurtured by a $3 million pledge by the conservancy that was matched by conservation international. as a result of this “micronesia challenge,” island leaders will protect 20 percent of their terrestrial and 30 percent of their marine resources by 2020. and in an unprecedented coordination among 11 of our state programs and several partners, we completed a complex 280,000-acre acquisition from international paper that will conserve significant areas of freshwater and forest habitat in the united states. while advancing this on-the-ground progress, we also designed a 10-year conservation goal that will be rolled out in the coming year. the 2015 goal, as it’s called, is derived from an extensive analysis of the world’s major habitat types by our staff scientists, working in collaboration with scientists from around the world. the goal commits us in the next 10 years to roughly doubling the conservation successes we have achieved in the past 50. such an ambi- tious undertaking will demand that we continue to develop the kind of high-impact strategies described above. setting our sights on this global goal has also increased our commitment to people—local people, indigenous people and whole communities that rely on the world’s oceans, forests, grasslands and rivers to sustain them. our experiences are proving that it is those closest to the land and water who are eagerly taking the steps to find solutions that balance the needs of people with nature. this report highlights just a few of the stories of people working with the conservancy to preserve their cultural and natural history and their ways of life. one of the hallmarks of the nature conservancy is its commitment to continuous improvement. we take pride in our accomplishments, but we won’t rest on our laurels. while we are proud of what we achieved this past year, we intend to do better next year—and in all the years that follow. although we certainly hope our revenues continue to rise, what is most important is that we accomplish ever more conservation for every dollar you give. thank you for your commitment to our global mission.