 in west virginia, the decline of the coal industry and the need to reinvent the state’s energy economy represented to many, both in and out of the state, an intractable problem. but our west virginia chapter saw an opportunity for tnc to play a significant role in bringing focus to the value of nature in a changing economy. the chapter initiated a wide-ranging conversation with stakeholders across the state and across the political spectrum. these discussions ultimately led to two nature and economy summit events, in november 2016 and june 2017. beth wheatley is tnc’s director of external affairs and strategic initiative for west virginia, and has been the driving force behind building this strategy: “the issues we face here in west virginia exist at that very complicated intersection between nature, economics and people. there’s a lot to unpack before we can even start to talk about solutions. people aren’t just grappling with economic hardship. we are watching a way of life transform before our eyes. “the nature conservancy usually digs right into solutions when we host a meeting. what we heard in prior conversations with stakeholders, though, was that the complexity of the changes that many west virginians are experiencing requires a different approach. we needed time for deep listening and learning—about the changes and about hopes for the future—to be able to work together to find solutions. so we created a space for more open- ended conversation and for exploration of possible answers. this was a bit of a risk, as we were not sure where the discus- sion would go. “it turns out people were hungry for an opportunity to have this kind of conversation. people who live and work here love this state for its natural beauty, and believe in the resiliency of its people. the open framework to our meetings allowed us to explore that, contributing some much- needed optimism about west virginia and its future.” ”we needed time for deep listening and learning —about the changes and about hopes for the future— to be able to work together to find solutions. ” the future the meetings in west virginia featured frank and moving discussions between local economic development authority leaders, state leaders, congressional staff, nonprofits, and clean energy, forest carbon, tourism and workforce development experts. many of the attendees had never met one another before. the diverse participants in these meetings looked for the common ground on which they could move forward. they agreed to continue the conversation, bringing more stakeholders to the table, and to explore the role of nature-based solutions, including forest carbon projects and renewable energy. one of the first projects that has emerged has tnc working with the coalfield development corporation to develop a business plan that will help repurpose lands that have been degraded from mining activity, including potentially developing renewable energy projects that create new jobs. sometimes it feels as though the united states’ response to climate change is stuck in neutral, but it’s actually moving forward at the state level. that is why tnc has launched its 50-state climate change strategy initiative. right now, tnc is working in every state—engaging business leaders, scientists and government leaders—to develop and implement steps toward clean energy and sustainable land use.