 an annual report is an opportunity to assess a past year’s progress, but at the nature conservancy our focus is always on the future. we have set the bar high for the coming decade, committing our organization to work with others to ensure the effective conservation of places that represent at least 10 percent of every major habitat on earth. we have also launched the campaign for a sustainable planet to support this goal. to achieve such an ambitous goal—which will nearly double the amount of our planet in protected status—we need to think bigger than we ever have before. and we must leverage every action, every dollar and every partnership to dramatically expand conservation’s footprint and reach people and places within key habitats around the world. we will not do this alone. the “work with others” phrase in our goal is of paramount importance. we have always valued partnerships—with landowners, corporations, governments and other organizations. we now must parlay the trust we have earned to influence those worldwide institutions with the greatest potential to affect positive action for our lands and waters, our seas and climate. we aim to be a trusted advisor for these institutions and the “go to” organization to broker an ethos of cooperation. with two-thirds of earth’s natural systems in decline, the urgency of our mission requires that we influence policy and engage key players on a global scale. but we have not forgotten that every conservation achievement starts at the grass roots, and innovation is tested at individual sites. with nearly 60 years of on-the-ground learning, we are investigating ways to be more nimble at developing conservation strategies at individual sites that can be rapidly expanded and replicated around the globe. in these pages you will see highlights of what we have achieved in 2007 with your support. but we have also gleaned seven stories from our priority projects to demonstrate how our work around the world is increasingly interconnected, how lessons learned at one place are being applied at sites across the globe, and how people of all walks of life are working together to create a sustainable future for us all. these are the kinds of efforts that will drive us in the years ahead. these are the kinds of people who, like you, will help us move our mission from the special-interest sidelines to mainstream relevance and drive conservation action in the united states, throughout our hemisphere and in every corner of the earth.