 architect and urban designer jonathan marvel has a vi- sion for healing the hurricane-ravaged communities of puerto rico, his birthplace, and it begins with the sun. from his current home in new york, marvel followed the rash of storms that blew through the carib- bean in september 2017. shocked by the devastation left in hurricane maria’s wake—including the destruction of puerto rico’s electrical infrastructure, which cut off power for an estimated 3.4 million people—he vowed to help. using his experience working with energy efficiency and environmentally friendly design at his new york– and san juan–based firm, marvel architects, he developed a plan to bring solar energy to the people of puerto rico and set about securing funding. the plan was modeled on a successful recovery effort in the aftermath of hurricane sandy by a group called power rockaways resilience. that fall, with cristina roig-morris, a puerto rican also living in new york city, marvel launched resilient power puerto rico. they decided to focus on repowering residential buildings, community centers, and the micro grid (local, freestanding power grids that operate autonomously from the central electrical system). initial efforts have centered on the community buildings, a critical source of basic necessities like food, water, power, and information for neigh- borhoods across the island. (in many areas, up to 5,000 people live within a short walk of these hubs.) so far, the team has installed enough solar-plus- battery micro grids to power seven community centers; the goal is to equip more than 200 centers across all of puerto rico’s 78 municipalities. nrdc collaborated with marvel and with the environmental justice community group proyecto enlace on a trial installation in the san juan neighbor- hood of caño martín peña, one of the poorest in the metropolitan area and one of the hardest hit by hurricane maria. we are also developing a second solar- battery micro grid in vieques, an island off the southeast coast of puerto rico. nrdc was grateful to have the opportunity to partner on the initial efforts. “a bottom-up network of distributed micro grids is starting to take shape across all of puerto rico,” notes nrdc senior attorney luis martinez, who is also from the island and focuses on strengthening renewable energy pro- grams. “each installation is a replicable model of renewable micro grids that will be placed at critical infrastructure across the island and provide resiliency when the next storm strikes,” he adds, “hopefully helping to make the community infrastructure as resilient as the people who live there.”