 climate change is making headlines worldwide. while the stories often point to carbon emissions from automobiles and electricity generation as the primary cause of our warming climate, they often do not mention that deforestation accounts for 20 to 25 percent of these heat-trapping gases. sandra brown knows these figures well: she helped calculate them while conducting pioneering research on the role of forests in the carbon cycle. now a senior scientist at winrock international, a nonprofit, brown recently co-led a study with the conservancy in 11 northeastern u.s. states to determine how much carbon could potentially be stored by activities such as reforestation or changing forest management. the study’s findings will serve as a resource for the states that agreed in 2005 to adopt mandatory reductions of carbon emissions as a part of the northeast regional greenhouse gas initiative. the conservancy advocated for the signing of the initiative. “when people refer to ‘carbon sequestration’ in forests, they are talking about one of two kinds of projects. one is taking lands that currently do not have trees on them and planting trees. as trees grow, they take in carbon dioxide from the atmosphere through the process of photosynthesis and store it in the wood, the leaves, the roots and the soil. when people walk through a forest, they’re kicking litter on the floor and the dead wood and all these things—that’s all car- bon dioxide. it all represents carbon dioxide that was in the atmosphere at one time and was fixed either through deliberate planting or by allowing or assisting natural regeneration. “the other is what we call ‘avoiding deforestation,’ maintaining the carbon supply on the land. when you deforest, you cut the trees down and you burn them, or leave them to rot, and they add the carbon dioxide back into the atmosphere. so if you could stop that, you would essentially be holding the carbon on the land and not allowing it to go up into the atmosphere. in some situations, it can be quite cost-effective. “of course, there are added benefits to carbon sequestration, such as protecting biodiversity and preventing soil erosion. just doing carbon sequestration and changing land use and land practices is not going to solve the problem of climate change. but at least, i would say, it could buy some time—20, 30 or 40 years to give power plants and power-generated systems more time to be redesigned, to move away from fossil fuels.”