 protecting one of the world’s last intact forests. the government of peru established yaguas national park in the peruvian amazon. roughly the size of the new york metropolitan area, the new park will prevent the loss of about 1.5 million tons of carbon over the next two decades. the nature conservancy supported this initiative through policy advocacy and raising awareness about the area’s ecological and cultural importance. as peru’s former prime minister mercedes aráoz put it, the park “will not only conserve a natural sanctuary, which is home to unique species, but also generate opportunities for indigenous families.” demonstrating sustainable ranching in the andes. an additional 1,100 ranchers joined the sustainable ranching project undertaken by tnc and partners in colombia. using a healthy agricultural systems approach that focuses on increas ing production while preserving natural assets—the water, soil and rich biodiversity that make productivity possible—farmers are restoring habitat while increasing production, profits and climate resilience. six years of partnership have resulted in more than 4,000 ranchers adopting this new farming paradigm, a 17 percent increase in milk and/or beef production and a reduction of 1 million tons of greenhouse gas emissions. biodiversity monitoring on farms has registered 479 species of birds—more than half as many bird species as all of the united states! reforesting a nation tnc played a leading role in designing forestar 2030, a new platform that unites six ministries to boost argentina’s economy and environmental sustainability through massive reforestation. this pioneering initiative will help mitigate climate change and position argentina in the global forestry market. the goal is to reach 2 million hectares (more than 4.9 million acres) of forested land by 2030. the platform is underpinned by scientific guidelines—provided by tnc— which show that reforestation is one of the most efficient nature-based, low-cost solutions for mitigating climate change and meeting paris climate agreement commitments. an economic case for restoring the atlantic forest. the mantiqueira restoration project is an initiative that brings together stakeholders from 284 brazilian municipalities located near brazil’s biggest markets—the states of sao paulo, rio de janeiro and minas gerais—to build a forest restoration network. tnc and our partners collaborated to design and implement a training program for residents on forest restoration and agroforestry systems using atlantic forest plants. our goal is to enable the restoration of 1.2 million hectares (2.9 million acres) while showing that reforestation can create jobs and grow the economy. implementing electronic traceability for fisheries. with tnc’s support, leaders of the 500-member national fisher’s cooperative in belize adopted thisfish, an electronic traceability system and a 2018 techstars sustainability accelerator winner, to improve sustainability and livelihoods. many of the cooperative’s members are from small fishing communities that have relied on lobster and conch fishing for generations. members will benefit from the new seafood sourcing technology, which allows the cooperative’s staff to electronically track production by landings to individual fishers and regions and keep a product inventory. the data will be used to make informed decisions and empower fishers to become better stewards of the sea. securing fresh water for a nation’s capital the water extracted annually from mexico city aquifers is more than double their recharge, while 2 million residents have occasional access to tap water to meet their basic needs. agua capital (mexico city’s water fund) will improve water management and catalyze conservation in targeted watersheds and forests. mexico city has made its water fund a cornerstone of its resilient cities strategy. the water fund’s seven members—tnc, mexichem, citibanamex, coca-cola femsa, femsa foundation, grupo modelo, and hsbc— are providing seed capital for start-up costs and an 800- hectare restoration pilot. breaking the link between soy and deforestation tnc released agroideal, an online tool that creates transparency for the brazilian soybean supply chain. the free tool analyzes up to 18 indicators of social and environmental risk and economic opportunity to help companies drive agriculture responsibly into previously cleared areas without disturbing the remaining natural ecosystems. the tools initially covered brazil’s cerrado and expanded cover to amazonia and the argentinean chaco. the tool reinforces the cerrado manifesto, an urgent call to action from brazilian nongovern- mental organizations to ensure soy and beef don’t contribute to deforestation, signed by a growing coalition of global companies and investors. fishpath enables fishers to be sustainable peru’s artisanal fisheries are unregulated, resulting in the risk of overfishing and declining stocks. fishpath, developed by tnc and partners, is an engagement process and decision-support tool that helps local fishing communities assess, monitor and manage coastal fisheries. in collaboration with peru’s ocean institute, tnc applied fishpath to assess chita (peruvian grunt) stocks and identified the most effective rules for the fishery, including a yearly no-take season for chita during the peak of reproductive activity. fishpath also is being applied to assess five other commercially vital species. its success has extended to produce stock assessments and management strategies for fisheries at a national scale.