 employing nature itself to secure fresh water for wildlife and people. saving great rivers the nature conservancy launched the center for sustainable hydropower in beijing to ensure that conservation has a seat at the table with hydropower decision-makers. (china accounts for about half of the world’s dams.) the center will serve as a resource for governments, hydropower companies, and other stakeholders seeking to better understand and incorporate conservation practices into hydropower development plans. by working with these key decision-makers, the conservancy is pursuing new ways to protect the world's most important rivers. nairobi and the tana river water fund the nature conservancy’s urban water blueprint identified nairobi, kenya, as a city that could secure water quality through upstream conservation actions. now the conservancy and an alliance of other ngos and businesses are launching the first water fund in africa to protect the tana river for the benefit of farmers, businesses, communities and wildlife throughout the watershed. by investing $10 million in planting trees and installing innovative water conservation technology and other actions, downstream users will save an estimated $21.5 million in water treatment costs over 30 years. chilean green infrastructure in chile, the nature conservancy launched an innovative green infrastructure project aimed at demonstrating that using nature to contain and filter drinking water can be more cost-effective than constructing concrete infrastructure and water treatment facilities. scientists and wetlands experts from the conservancy and other institutions are working to protect wetlands in the maipo watershed that provide fresh water to more than 6 million people in the metropolitan area of santiago, chile’s capital city. the wetlands are 2,700 meters above sea level and less than 70 miles from santiago. great lakes certification lake erie provides drinking water to millions and is home to more than half of all great lakes fish. recent algal blooms fed by fertilizer runoff from farms have threatened fish and drinking water alike. in response, the nature conservancy, researchers and members of the agriculture industry pioneered a certification program that encourages fertilizer service providers to adopt proven best practices to keep nutrients in the field and out of rivers and streams. sixteen providers completed the voluntary audits and became certified in the first year, influencing more than 1.1 million acres of farmland. the certification program is now expanding into the mississippi river watershed.