 you've spent much of your career battling water and 400 fewer tons of chemicals, reduced of motivation. i'm convinced that the only industrial pollution. why focus on textiles? energy consumption by 6 percent, and saved way to drive the necessary change is through the fashion industry has always had a big a total of $14.7 million in operating costs. the radical transparency. when customers can environmental footprint, and the problem got top five performing mills each saved more than get information on their cell phones about worse when companies started shifting much $800,000 that year. the behavior of their favorite brands, those of their textile manufacturing to countries companies will be motivated to fix their abroad. that change created the perfect storm: how have bit clothing companies responded? pollution problems, big potential environmental impacts with little nroc's clean by design team has had great oversight. factories making textiles in china results working with target, gap, levi strauss, how docs clean by design differ from your and other developing countries now use more and h&m, and we're reaching out to many more previous work on industrial pollution? than twice the water and energy used by similar companies. this project is so interesting because i'm taking factories in the industrialized world. many also we've learned that most clothing brands don't everything l'\'e learned during my decades at rely on toxic chemicals that are no longer allowed consider environmental performance when they nrdc and adapting it so that it makes sense in the united states. in fact, the textile industry is are selecting suppliers, and they tend not to have in china. plus, people ask me all the time what responsible for 25 percent of global chemical use! an active relationship with their fabric mills. i'm wearing. that never happened when i was keeping this kind of opaque supply chain allows "''dr king in pesticides, cement, or steel! how docs nrdc's clean by design program the.m to avoid responsibility for any pollution work with factories? problems that might arise from the production of after studying the chinese textile manufacturing their clothing. process for a year, we developed a suite of 10 to tackle this issue, nrdc is working best practices any mill can adopt to reduce its with a wonderful chinese ngo, the institute environmental impact and save money. these for public and environmental affairs, on a improvements allow mills to be far more efficient: corporate transparency index. some really big they'll burn less coal for heat and use less water clothing brands have terrible scores, and we're and fewer chemicals. convincing factory owners putting pressure on those companies to take to care about their environmental footprints can responsibility for their supply chains rather than be like pushing a rock up a steep hill, but reducing risk having their brand reputation damaged. costs gives them a competitive edge in scoring business from multinational apparel companies. what is the ultimate goal of the program? how effective have these strategics been in curbing pollution and saving money? we're seeking deep reductions in the environmental footprint created by manufacturing our clothing in china. from they've exceeded our expectations! the 33 mills a technical engineering perspective, this in china that completed nrdc's clean by design huge pollution problem is actually not that program in 2014 used three million fewer tons of hard to fix. the real roadblock is just lack