 more than a generation has passed since the u.s. food and drug administration first recognized that feeding livestock low doses of certain antibiotics could promote “superbugs”—antibiotic- resistant bacteria capable of infecting people. yet the fda, bowing to pressure from the livestock and pharmaceutical industries, has failed to take the necessary steps to ensure that antibiotics continue to work when we need them most: when our families are ill. this year, backed by the conclusions of the world’s leading medical, scientific, and public health organizations, nrdc and our partners filed a lawsuit to force the fda to follow its own safety findings and withdraw approval for most nontherapeutic uses of penicillin and tetracyclines in animal feed. a staggering 80 percent of antibiotics sold in the united states are consumed by livestock animals. the antibiotics, which are mixed into feed or water for pigs, cows, chickens, and turkeys to promote faster weight gain and compensate for unsanitary living conditions, are used at levels too low to treat disease, making bacteria more resistant to medical treatment. the institute of medicine of the national academies of science has warned that if antibiotic resistance is not addressed, “the specter of untreatable infections—a regression to the pre-antibiotic era—is looming just around the corner.” the fda has shut its eyes to this horrifying scenario. following a lawsuit that challenged the fda’s lack of action, the agency responded to citizen petitions on this critical issue—the first of which was filed in 1999. even then it moved only to recommend that livestock operations voluntarily stop the unnecessary use of antibiotics. in september 2011, the american medical association, the american academy of pediatrics, and other leading health groups sent a letter urging congress, the white house, and the fda to take immediate action in light of clear scientific evidence linking the misuse and overuse of antibiotics in food animals and the spread of antibiotic resistance. the same month, a report released by the u.s. government accountability office found that federal agencies, including the fda, have made only “limited progress” in addressing antibiotic use in animals. by focusing on good hygiene and improved management practices, a facility can dramatically reduce illness among livestock and, in turn, the need for antibiotics. in fact, all 27 countries in the european union have already stopped using antibiotics to promote growth and increase production, thereby reducing the incidence of antibiotic- resistant bacteria in meat. nrdc is making sure that america is next in line.