 approximately 160 million tv set-top boxes in homes across america use about $3 billion worth of electricity every year—much of it when the box is turned off, according to an nrdc report. in december 2013, after a yearlong negotiation with nrdc and other advocates, cable, satellite, and phone companies agreed to use more efficient equipment, which will lower electricity bills by $1 billion annually and prevent the emission of five million metric tons of carbon pollution each year. solar power to schools in a first-of-its-kind initiative for nrdc, we launched a crowdfunding campaign to help schools purchase and install rooftop solar systems. in addition to the environmental benefits, students also get a firsthand look at how solar energy works and why science, engineering, and math are important. solar can also help schools cut energy costs, savings that can then be funneled into other, underfunded programs. during our month- long online campaign, we raised enough funds to assist a handful of pilot schools, which will help pave the way for solar on more schools across the nation. reducing carbon pollution from power plants to protect future generations from climate change, we must start cutting carbon pollution today. in 2012, nrdc devised a groundbreaking strategy that would put the first-ever national limits on carbon pollution from power plants. in june 2014, the u.s. environmental protection agency proposed limits inspired by our innovative plan. once implemented, they will reduce carbon pollution from power plants more than a quarter by 2020, and 30 percent by 2030, from 2005 levels. the standards represent one of the most important steps the united states has taken to slow climate change, and they will save billions of dollars and thousands of lives. empowering people to protect themselves from fracking residents across the country have had little defense against companies that sweep into their neighborhoods and drill for oil and natural gas. as an october 2014 nrdc report revealed, nearly 5.5 million californians, including a disproportionate number of minorities, live within a mile of an oil or gas well. fracking pollution has been linked to health problems—and residents should be able to decide if they want it in their backyards. through nrdc’s community fracking defense campaign, we helped new york towns like dryden and middlefield fight (and win) legal battles, and we’re continuing to empower other affected areas. 10 cities unite to cut carbon pollution buildings account for more than half of the carbon pollution in most u.s. cities. through our groundbreaking city energy project, a joint initiative with the institute for market transformation, nrdc is helping 10 cities boost their energy efficiency by, among other things, retrofitting old buildings. together, these places—atlanta, boston, chicago, denver, houston, kansas city, los angeles, orlando, philadelphia, and salt lake city—could lower energy bills by $1 billion annually and cut five to seven tons of carbon emissions every year. setting the standard for new appliance efficiency from water faucets to wifi routers, our homes are filled with energy-hogging appliances. california has once again set the bar for efficiency with plans to establish new standards for 15 product categories. aside from saving the state up to $2 billion in electricity bills every year, the shift could also spur manufacturers to sell these upgraded versions across the nation and sometimes around the world. in order to ensure the program is as effective as possible, nrdc will help california finalize the new standards, and retailers or manufacturers that don’t meet these standards will be fined. senate rejects fast-track approval of keystone xl big oil’s ongoing lobbying efforts are fierce, but in november 2014, the u.s. senate stood up to polluters and voted down an effort to approve the keystone xl tar sands pipeline, which nrdc has been fighting to stop for years. the bill would have overridden environmental law and turned congress into a permitting authority—giving a green light to the pipeline all in a single strike. nrdc applauded the senate for rejecting the misguided bill, a move that set the stage for president obama to veto another approval effort in early 2015. we continue to urge the president to reject this dirty pipeline outright once and for all.