 lake tanganyika holds 17 percent of our planet’s fresh water and boasts more than 300 fish species. for tens of thousands of people who live along it, the lake is their water fountain, highway and grocery store. rising eastward from the shoreline, the greater mahale ecosystem encompasses 4.8 million acres of mostly forested landscape. this ecosystem is home to approximately 93 percent of tanzania’s 2,800 endangered chimpanzees. the health of this diverse natural environment and the well-being of its people are threatened by extreme poverty compounded by a rapidly growing human population. the birth rate in this region is 7.1 births per woman—one of the highest in the world. farida katunka is a volunteer community health worker for tanzanian villages that line lake tanganyika: “it’s not easy to have 10 kids! when people learn about family planning, it can help them in so many ways. by doing this, i’m helping a lot of families. i knew this wouldn’t be a paid job, but i wanted to help other women. “before we visit a house, we assess the birth trend at that house. once we realize that someone needs help, we pay a call. i discovered one woman who had six children all in a row, so i held a village meeting with the help of the chairman and made sure she could attend. we invited couples of reproductive age, and presented on family planning. after the meeting, i held a q&a, and referred those with questions i could not answer to the health center. the following saturday, this woman appeared at the health center and asked for an iud. a few years later, she still just has six kids and her health has improved.” connect people and nature. the future tuungane (kiswahili for “let’s unite”) is a collaboration between the nature conservancy and pathfinder international, a global reproductive health organization, and other local and international stakeholders. tuungane is expressly designed to create integrated solutions to create healthier families, fisheries and forests. key to the project is outreach to women, who have historically lacked access to health care. more than 17,000 women of reproductive age have already received family-planning counseling and access to modern contraception at upgraded health clinics. volunteers like farida katunka have been recruited and trained through the tuungane project. since tuungane’s inception, the project also has seen more than 1,700 people receive microfinance loans to start sustainable small businesses and diversify their incomes. eight new village land use plans earmark 228,000 acres as village land forest reserves to protect key chimp habitat, and 57 forest scouts have been trained and deployed. tuungane is providing training on climate-smart agriculture practices, which not only reduce sedimentation caused by runoff into the lake, but produce higher yields for the farmers. and 15 of the 17 coastal villages have established beach management units to enforce their own sustainable fishing regulations.