 “the volume of nature,” wrote oliver goldsmith, “is the book of knowledge.” the nature conservancy has been studying this volume for more than half a century. day by day, we have drawn knowledge from it. knowledge at once spiritual and practical. knowledge that recognizes nature’s wonders even as it lays out the most readable of road maps. in this way, we steer a course toward the renewal of the planet. we now know we can’t secure the earth’s future by saving one species or one acre at a time. we must think and act on altogether larger scales, expand our scope to include the most basic components of natural factories — the biological processes, the lands, the waters that keep the earth’s engine running. that doesn’t mean abandoning the conservancy’s trademark land acquisition programs — far from it. but it does mean changing business as usual. and so we call on the latest developments in conservation science. we plead our cause in the corridors of power. we build alliances with the broadest array of partners — communities and corporations, scientists and legislators, government agencies and grass-roots groups. and we work — systematically and intelligently — to preserve the world’s last great places. not just spaces on a map but places that bring us into deepest touch with the earth. the places where we feel nature’s design in every particle of dirt, every cascade of water. places like oregon’s zumwalt prairie, a swath of bunchgrass prairie that shelters america’s densest known concentration of hawks, eagles and other breeding birds of prey. places like china’s yunnan province, where three of the world’s major rivers converge in a spectacular terrain of snow-capped peaks and forested valleys. places like the laguna madre, a shallow, salty lagoon that stretches from texas into mexico and houses one of the greatest collections of wildlife the world has ever seen. around the world, the conservancy is paying attention to the places people care most about — prioritizing them and working overtime to save them. we are known for bold action and meaningful results. we determine what needs to be done, and then we do it. if there isn’t a way to do it today, we look for a way to do it tomorrow. and in everything we do, we listen for nature’s own wisdom. what follows are stories about specific places in specific times. next year, a decade from now, the conservancy will have new stories to tell, but only one reason for telling them. here in these widely scattered places, here in these varying climates and cultures and conditions ... here is where we tell the story of our future."