 i worked in construction when i was younger, and i can’t help being reminded of the similarities between building and the way the nature conservancy works. both require continuous planning, and both begin with a solid foundation and a blueprint for success. the conservancy, with 55 years of conserva- tion success, has a strong foundation upon which to build the future; the 2015 goal serves as our blueprint for success. we have spent much of this last year developing global conservation plans that will guide our conservation action. in 1998, when i joined the nature conservancy’s board, i was struck by the fact that no other organization in our field has so continually challenged itself to work at larger and larger scales to protect earth’s natural diversity. now, in order to achieve our global mission, we have taken on the 2015 goal—a goal we are uniquely able to accomplish. achieving this milestone means we will “go to scale ”—to use a business term—to protect the most critical places in five essential habitats around the globe: marine, freshwater, grassland, desert and forest. you have seen our success with this approach—working across borders to protect large, functioning natural systems—in projects like the complex deal that we negotiated with international paper this past year, which preserves forests throughout the southeastern united states and wisconsin. we are moving up to a global perspective in other habitats as well. for instance, in many of our 100 marine conservation projects around the world, we have begun to apply strategies that are applicable at multiple scales, using market incentives such as submerged land rights, purchasing and retiring trawling gear and fishing permits, and promoting better-managed, financed and resilient marine protected area networks that balance ecosystem and human needs. we are also working on some of the biggest rivers on earth: china’s yangtze, the mississippi, the amazon and the zambezi in africa. our freshwater expertise, which is found throughout the organization, has created unique partnerships with industry and government agencies, including the army corps of engineers. we are well-prepared for the task of protecting these mighty rivers and other freshwater habitats. in all of these places, our accomplishments take place on the ground or in the water, and they add up to tremendous local results that, over the long term, address the global challenges before us. as i think of the work ahead of us, i know we will continue the building effort the conservancy began 55 years ago. like growth strategies in any business, this will require a high tolerance for risk, but risk that is managed by the scientific rigor and pragmatic business sense that have become the hallmarks of the conservancy. to achieve the 2015 goal, we will rely on the help and collaboration of a variety of partners, as we have throughout our history. we will strengthen and maintain important relationships with governments, both local and national, businesses, other ngos and the communities of people who live where we work. the strength of our abilities and our foundation of people and science will get us to the goal. we are in this for the long haul, and we hope you are right there with us as we build the future of conservation—for today and for generations to come.