 nrdc knows the power of passionate young people can make the world a healthier and safer place for future generations. in fact, that's how we got our own start. since swedish teenager and climate ac'l'ivis'l' greta thunberg began skipping school to hold daily sit-ins in front of her country's parliament building nearly two years ago, her singular act of protest has morphed into a youth-led, worldwide movement. the youth climate strike has fundamentally reshaped our climate discourse and galvanized millions of advocates on every continent. in september 2019, members of this movement organized and carried out the weeklong global climate strike, in which 7.6 million people across 185 countries took part in more than 6,000 demonstrations designed to pressure governments to speed the transition from fossil fuels to clean energy. these strikes are indicative of a tidal shift in the climate conversation, with young people showing us what moral courage and bold climate action can look like," says mitch bernard, nrdc's chief counsel. as part of the adult led coalition of strike partners, nrdc supported the youth groups and amplified the voices of individual advocates across the nation by sharing their words with our two million social media followers. nrdc is proud to stand behind this newest generation of climate activists, says rob friedman, a policy advocate on nrdc's environmental justice team. as he watched thousands of high schoolers representing all of new york's communities stream out of the city hall subway stop on september 20, en route to the protest site at foley square and bearing signs with slogans such as "make the climate great again," '"'we deserve a future," and ''losing nemo,"' he felt energized. this generation of young people is drawing the connections between the fossil fuel industry, environmental injustice, and the climate crisis in ways much of the mainstream movement refuses to," he says. "with their leadership, we are going to win." nrdc shares the strikers' frustration over promises broken, commitments unmet, and solutions unexplored. we also share their faith that a solution to the climate crisis will emerge from laws and policies that truly reflect the will of the people. another thing we share with the strikers: a belief in the power of passionate young people who are committed to ensuring a livable planet for their own and future generations. fifty years ago, a group of young attorneys- part of the '"'don't trust anyone over 30 generation,"' to quote nrdc cofounder john adams-began gathering in an old catskill mountains farmhouse to discuss a strategy- for accelerating the fight for cleaner water, cleaner air, and habitat preservation. 'these gatherings were some of the first meetings of the natural resources defense council, at the time just a small collection of lawyers determined to take on polluting industries and their environmentally destructive practices. nrdc's founders knew that putting an end to our reliance on fossil fuels would be essential to reversing the onslaught of climate change. today, as the youth movement has made clear, it's become the most important global issue of our time. a week before participating in september's demonstration, sabirah binth mahmud, a 16~year~old from philadelphia, put it starkly. "l will be striking along with youth across the world because my family in bangladesh is dying. i've lost three cousins already due to childhood cancer and one of my nephews due to a flood in which he drowned. no one deserves to have these climate disasters as their daily life, and we need to take action against this growing normality.'' we are all in this together. scientists predict that by the time mahmud and her peers turn 50, if we continue with business as usual, the average annual number of days in the united states on which the heat index exceeds 100 degrees fahrenheit will have doubled. it's on their account that we cannot back down from this fight.