 most days in the california deserts boast clear, wide-open skies. these arid lands—rich in both biodiversity and the cultural history of many native american peoples—are also ripe for solar development. as secretary of the interior, this is where i first saw the nature conservancy’s innovation at work, when the bureau of land management (blm) turned to tnc for help designing a blueprint for renewable energy development across 22.5 million acres of the iconic mojave and sonoran deserts of southern california. when done right, clean energy development is a crucial strategy in the fight against climate change, but it must be sited in places where impacts to people and nature are minimal. fortunately, science tells us there is more than enough already-altered land (former mines, brownfields, degraded agricultural lands or rooftops) to meet the growing need for renewable energy. working with tnc, the blm developed a plan for these desert regions that steers renewable energy development to lower-impact, high-potential areas. this minimizes harm to wildlife and habitat while also speeding up the permitting process for energy companies. the nature conservancy’s partnership with the blm in california was about more than protecting the state’s deserts—it was about putting science in the hands of devel - opers, utilities, government agencies, native american tribes and local communities to influence change at scale. we are also using similar strategies to encourage smart wind power development in the midwest and great plains (see page 32) and to enable a mix of low-impact renewable development in other nations, such as croatia, colombia, india and gabon. in my role as interim ceo of the nature conservancy, i have the privilege of seeing this kind of innovation in action every day. in 2019 alone, tnc launched dozens of projects that are bringing together partners in new ways to inspire change on a much greater scale. these programs—many of them still in their pilot phase—are already protecting an area of ocean nearly the size of germany (see page 11) and helping to conserve a 253,000-acre forest in the heart of appalachian coal country that will safeguard wildlife, sequester carbon and support the local economy (see page 30). this year we also celebrated achievements that were the culmination of many years of hard work, deep collab - oration and shared learning. in mongolia, the government approved 22 new national protected areas covering 8.6 million acres, informed by tnc science (see page 8). in canada’s northwest territories, we supported the estab - lishment of thaidene nëné, a 6.5-million-acre protected area that will serve as a model for indigenous-led conservation (see page 10). and in melbourne, australia, we helped the city launch one of the world’s first urban “greenprints”—a comprehensive initiative to develop and advance plans for expanding tree cover, creating wildlife habitat, improving public health and lessening the impacts of climate change (see page 24). the time to innovate for nature has never been more critical, as the climate crisis continues to imperil our lands, our waters and our very well-being. across lands, rivers, oceans, climate change, agriculture and cities, all of the projects featured in the pages that follow demonstrate how the nature conservancy is answering this challenge. i am optimistic that by working with partners, volunteers and supporters like you, we can create a future where people and nature thrive together.