 over the past several years, i have had the opportunity to visit many conservancy projects in the united states and abroad, and most important of all, to meet many conservancy people who are working in our state and country programs. it is a humbling and gratifying experience to stand in china’s northwest yunnan province and see how our collaboration with the chinese government and local residents is ensuring the protection of this dramatically beautiful and biologically diverse place. it is awe- inspiring to see the vast scope of the wetlands in the pantanal of brazil and to know that this critical habitat is thriving in large part from the strong scientific expertise and collaborative partnerships the conservancy’s brazil program offers. it is equally inspiring to see cutting-edge projects in the united states on an ecosystem scale such as the upper mississippi river or some of our spectacular conservation sites in the northern forest. it has always been clear to me that the heart of the conservancy rests with the state and country programs, which are so ably planned, funded and executed by staff, trustees, donors and volunteers around the world. in particular, the contributions of some 900,000 donors and volunteers who joined in our efforts in 2004 cannot be overstated. they are worldwide ambassadors; their commitment and varied talents are key to advancing the conservancy’s mission. in my judgment, our staff, trustees, donors and volunteers are among the smartest, hardest working and most dedicated group of people in conservation today. this last year was marked with difficult challenges and great accomplishments. the public scrutiny we experienced was taxing but ultimately has strengthened our organization. next to its people, the conservancy’s most valuable asset is its reputation. to protect that reputation, we have taken a hard look at our management practices, policies and procedures and communication network and have invested the time and energy to ensure that every facet of the organization functions at the highest level of excellence. to help with these efforts, we have created a new position, chief compliance officer, and karen berky has enthusias- tically taken on this role. karen is a long-time conservancy employee, an attorney and a respected member of the larger government relations community. her insights about continuing to safe- guard and strengthen the conservancy’s reputation as we fulfill its mission according to the highest ethical standards make interesting reading (see interview on page 30). 2004 was a year of great conservation accomplishments, some of which we have described in this annual report. they are your accomplishments, of which you should be very proud. i look forward to collaborating with you in the year ahead, confident that, together, we will pursue and fulfill our shared mission with renewed vigor.