 the oil industry and federal regulators said it couldn’t happen. we knew it could. so when bp’s deepwater horizon oil rig exploded on april 20, 2010, unleashing one of the worst environmental disasters in our nation’s history, nrdc stood ready to channel all of our available resources into action. we rapidly assembled a swat team of top nrdc experts on oceans, human health, communications, government affairs, and marine mammals to ensure a well-coordinated and effective response. throughout the spring and summer, our team battled on every major front of the gulf crisis, from the mississippi delta to capitol hill, to advance four broad goals: protecting the health of workers, residents and wildlife in the gulf region; holding bp accountable for the destruction that it had wrought; protecting our coasts against future oil spills by strengthening government agencies and oversight; and continuing the fight for clean energy policies that will significantly reduce our country’s dependence on oil. only days after the blowout, we dispatched scientists and communications the gulf catastrophe: experts to the gulf to help protect local communities from immediate harm. our health team worked closely with the environmental protection agency to improve the monitoring of air quality in the area and provided real-time information to local communities on the potential health effects of the spill and of the chemical dispersants that bp was using to try to fight it. later our team worked with local leaders to strengthen the validity of the food and drug administration’s seafood risk assessments—which determine when to reopen fisheries closed due to the oil disaster—fully protect the health of vulnerable communities from toxic oil contaminants. meanwhile, our communications team gathered images and stories of people from the region to document the mounting toll of the disaster, and we made sure that these local voices were heard in the national press. “it was very helpful for nrdc to get a first-hand look at what was happening in the gulf. our experts were able to determine where government most needed to be prodded to improve its response and just how much the disaster seemed to be imperiling the environment. nrdc communications staff were very successful at using their on-the-ground presence to get the word out about what was at stake,” said david goldston, nrdc’s director of government affairs, who headed the swat team with sarah chasis, director of our oceans initiative. “our up-to-the-minute observations and insights, documented in daily blog posts and media interviews, were crucial to countering the oil industry’s pr machine and making the broader public aware of what was really happening down there.” in july, nrdc and the gulf coast fund established the gulf coast resource center in buras, louisiana, to facilitate communication among gulf residents, local groups, and the media and provide open-door access to nrdc’s science, health, policy, advocacy, and communications expertise. meanwhile, through our gulf coast recovery fund, nrdc members donated more than $125,000 directly to local nonprofit groups that were helping to restore the hardest-hit communities, wildlife, and ecosystems. as we worked to support thousands of gulf residents facing the daunting challenge of recovery, we leveraged nrdc’s legal expertise and political clout to help guard against such a disaster in the future. when the oil industry argued that it could still safely drill in the deep waters of the gulf, we joined the obama administration in defending a moratorium on deepwater drilling in court. we also filed suit over the misuse of sonic exploration in the gulf and prepared for additional legal action to ensure that endangered species receive adequate consideration in oil companies’ plans for new drilling operations. our oceans team helped compel the white house to issue stricter requirements for drilling procedures, as we urged congress to pass new legislation governing where and when drilling can occur. meanwhile, we pressed the federal government to allow for greater scientific input in determining the full environmental impact of the spill, and we fought to ensure that the $500 million bp promised for scientific research would be promptly and properly spent. over the summer our multimedia team produced more than 40 short videos featuring gulf residents, nrdc experts, and high-profile supporters that were viewed by millions of people. our ongoing communication effort also included the publication of the first book on the gulf oil spill, in deep water: the anatomy of a disaster, the fate of the gulf, and how to end our oil addiction, and a collaboration with storycorps and bridge the gulf to provide an important avenue for gulf residents to tell their own stories. ultimately, our nation will always be at risk for massive oil spills as long we prolong our dependence on oil. with this in mind, we will continue to press congress to increase fuel efficiency standards for vehicles and to pass comprehensive energy legislation.