 nrdc helps secure historic treaty to limit bottom-trawling fishing in the 1990s, scientists conducting deep-sea dives discovered mount- ing evidence that the world’s high seas—a loosely regulated expanse of international waters spanning half of the earth’s surface—are home to a vast array of previously undiscovered marine species. the divers witnessed something else, too. massive areas of the ocean floor, the lifeblood of our deep-seas realm, had been scraped clean by a form of industrial fishing called bottom trawling. bottom-trawling boats use weighted nets up to 200 feet long and 40 feet wide to go as far as 6,000 feet below the ocean’s surface. with a single pass, these nets wipe out everything in their path, from centuries-old coral forests to delicate sponge fields. shocked by the scientists’ reports, nrdc set out to sound the alarm in the world’s ultimate rule-making forum: the u.n. general assembly. in 2011, following five years of steady pressure and rigorous oversight by nrdc and our partners, the world’s leading fishing nations signed a landmark treaty to protect more than 16 million square miles of the pacific ocean from unregulated, destructive bottom trawling. we began laying the groundwork for this historic victory back in 2006 when, armed with the best available scientific evidence, we helped convince the u.n. to pass a resolution calling on fishing nations to stop unregulated bottom trawling. for the first time, the resolution restricted countries from authorizing bottom-trawling expeditions without first examining the impacts of this activity on corals and other ecological treasures, and then adopting measures to prevent those impacts. with this key milestone in place, we began the painstaking process of drawing up a treaty ensuring that fishing nations lived up to their commitments. as a member of the u.s. delegation, nrdc’s international oceans program director lisa speer reviewed and commented on reams of government documents and enlisted the world’s leading scientists to help at crucial moments. given the mix of countries involved—canada, japan, russia, china, korea, and taiwan—a strong u.s. position was essential. to achieve this, we worked closely with the state department and other conservation groups to highlight the impacts of high-seas bottom trawling on u.s. fisheries and other domestic interests. gradually, a strongly worded treaty began to take shape. finalized in february, the treaty prohibits any new bottom trawling unless its impacts on corals and deep- sea fish are considered and controlled. the agreement also creates the north pacific fisheries commission, which is charged with implementing and enforcing these restrictions. in the coming months and years, we will continue to work with our partners to win stricter requirements for assessing, monitoring, and controlling the impacts of bottom trawling and to extend protections to unregulated areas in the southern reaches of the north pacific. in the meantime, this hard-won treaty is an important step toward ensuring that the mysteries of the sea amaze and inspire future generations.