 “the first time we heard that they were thinking of switching to the flint river, we laughed,” says melissa mays, a resident of flint, michigan. “we thought it was a joke. because there’s a ton of cars in there, shopping carts, and we knew that industry had dumped in the river for 100 years and didn’t clean it up.” in april 2014, immediately after their city decided to start supplying residents with water pumped from the polluted flint river instead of continuing to buy municipal water from nearby detroit, residents noticed dark, foul-tasting water flowing out of their taps. as mays and fellow residents would later learn from independent tap water testing and the local hurley children’s clinic, the water was highly corrosive and causing lead to leach from the city’s aging pipes directly into flint families’ drinking glasses and into their bodies. these were incredibly troubling findings, as lead can cause long-lasting cognitive, behavioral, and health problems. a local pediatrician found that the percentage of flint children with elevated blood lead levels had doubled—and, in some neighborhoods, tripled. complaints by community members were initially ignored by the city and state, but flint residents did not stay silent. pastor allen overton, of concerned pastors for social action, and other community activists formed a group called the coalition for clean water. mays—a mother of three—confirmed that her family’s water was contaminated with lead through independent testing, hauled jugs of brown water to local civil gatherings, and continued to press city leaders for action. yet for more than a year, city officials continued to dismiss the concerns of local parents, pastors, scientists, and journalists, calling the water-quality problems a mere bump in the road. the community’s trust in their government frayed. “i can’t even count the number of homes i went into to install filters,” says overton. “we were in crisis mode. it was a real tough time.” finally, in the summer of 2015, government officials began to take the problem seriously. investigations by the aclu of michigan uncovered widespread water issues, and at the group’s invitation, nrdc stepped in to help. “they reached out to nrdc because they knew that we have expertise and a deep knowledge of safe drinking water laws and how to bring these types of environmental citizens’ suits,” says dimple chaudhary, nrdc’s lead counsel on the flint case. joining chaudhary were nrdc attorneys anjali waikar, sarah tallman, and jared knicley, and legal fellow evan feinauer. the lawyers were fiercely committed to the case from day one, united in their devotion to the community they were serving. “this was about them,” says waikar, “not about us.” in january 2016, concerned pastors for social action, melissa mays, the aclu of michigan, and nrdc together filed a federal lawsuit seeking to require the city of flint and the state of michigan to replace the lead pipes and to follow federal regulations for treating and testing the water. two months later, nrdc’s legal team filed a preliminary injunction motion, supported by 1,200 pages of evidence and resident testimonies nrdc had collected, asking the court to require delivery of bottled water to people’s homes while their tap water remained unsafe. the court granted the request—an important step in the fight on behalf of flint’s residents. “it was not fair just to expect people to go out and track down their own water, day in and day out,” says tallman. meanwhile, our lawyers kept up their fight outside the courthouse, too. “this kind of case really requires multiple tools in the toolbox to litigate,” says waikar, who emphasizes the importance of building local trust. “it requires boots on the ground, especially when the relief you’re seeking has the potential to impact an entire community.” in march 2017, just a little over a year after the suit was filed, the state of michigan and the city of flint agreed to replace the lead pipes and to put an effective lead-monitoring system in place. as part of the $97 million settlement, authorities have three years to examine water service lines for at least 18,000 homes and replace those made of lead or galvanized steel. the settlement also guaranteed continued funding for health recovery programs, the extension of bottled water distribution programs, and expansion of a home filter installation program. there’s still a lot of work to be done in flint—not the least of which is ensuring that city and state officials follow through on their obligations to the people they serve. yet for the city’s courageous residents and community activists, the court victory has provided a ray of hope. “the state of michigan didn’t expect what happened, which was for all of us to stand up, become educated and organized, and fight back,” says mays.