 as more people move to cities and the need for conservation grows, it becomes more urgent that the nature conservancy unite people around the world to understand nature’s importance in their lives and take action to maintain it. the 2013 harris poll equitrend named the nature conservancy the environmental non-profit brand of the year. other honors include a 2013 pr news nonprofit award in the external publication category and an honorable mention for the media relations campaign coral reefs saved my life, and lead scientist sanjayan was part of a cbs news team that received an emmy nomination for its reporting on the ivory wars in africa. a conservancy scientist in colombia and his cycling team pedaled more than 2,000 kilometers over 14 days to educate and motivate children to get to know the ecosystems and cultures that define the natural diversity of their country. carlos pedraza, a geographic information systems specialist, joined the buena vibra cycling system for cycling colombia to generate awareness in the magdalena-cauca river basin, a focal area of the great rivers partnership. a stellar array of musical artists—ranging from alt-country rocker ryan bingham to desert-blues band tinariwen—joined the conservancy’s all hands on earth campaign, an online effort featuring original videos with music to engage new audiences and encourage them to take environmental actions. the video featuring hip-hop duo macklemore and ryan lewis quickly became the conservancy’s most viewed video after being viewed more than half a million times in just two weeks. the conservancy and detroit public tv co-produced a series of two-hour programs called “great lakes now connect.” the series, which feature conservancy scientists as moderators for expert panels, provides in-depth reporting about critical issues that impact the great lakes area and its nearly 34 million residents. the programs have aired on public television stations around the country. the conservancy and the latin america conservation council have launched a public awareness campaign— where does your water come from?—in latin america, with the objective of inspiring audiences to conserve water and protect the environment. the first national campaign kicked off in colombia in partnership with caracol television, which is watched by 93 percent of urban adult tv viewers in colombia each week, and will roll out in other countries in the coming year. more than 800 volunteers, including 373 airmen and women from keesler air force base, came together at pelican point, alabama, to build a 224-foot living shoreline. volunteers moved more than 13,000 “oyster castles”—interlocking concrete blocks—to form the foundation of four oyster reefs that will ultimately protect 329 feet of natural shoreline, helping to minimize erosion, protect coastal dunes and enhance natural habitat. the conservancy launched its first non-u.s. membership program in australia in late 2012. the conservancy works in more than 35 countries around the world, and has membership programs in the works for additional markets in the coming year. conservancy president and ceo mark tercek, along with conservation biologist jonathan adams, published nature’s fortune: how business and society thrive by investing in nature. the book, which argues that saving nature can produce big returns for people, businesses and governments, reached the top spot on the washington post hardcover nonfiction bestseller list in april 2013. the nature conservancy in texas is encouraging residents to help control the state’s invasive species by eating them. for earth day, austin chefs ned and jodi elliot developed unique and delicious recipes using some of texas’ most pernicious invasive species, including himalayan blackberry jam, wild boar rillettes and orecchiette with bastard cabbage. in may 2013, the conservancy convened more than 25 ceos and government leaders for the caribbean summit of political and business leaders, co-hosted by the prime minister of grenada, the premier of the british virgin islands and business leader sir richard branson. the summit, held in the british virgin islands, resulted in $64 million in conservation commitments from caribbean governments, global corporations and partners, and launched the defend paradise campaign to raise awareness and support among visitors to the caribbean.