 nrdc has an unparalleled arsenal of core capacities that allow us to advocate for environmental laws and protections from every angle and with maximum force. these core capacities set nrdc apart. many groups have extraordinary experts in one or two areas or focus their resources on one tool or another. nrdc’s effectiveness stems from the fact that we fight battles on many fronts at once. by taking a comprehensive yet focused approach, nrdc gets results. these critical capacities include: a broad range of coordinated advocacy tools, including policy expertise, law, science, communications, finance acumen, and diverse partnerships. a strong presence in the centers of government, finance, manufacturing, environmental innovation, and entertainment that allows for effective collaborations with influential sectors. a track record of success in china, india, and the americas, where we can solve problems that are global in scope and leverage solutions. a loyal group of supporters, including more than a half million members who give us access to the courts, provide public backing for local, state, and federal advocacy, and augment the passion of nrdc’s staff. a world-class platform of administration, finance, human resources, and information technology that enables us to attract and retain the best staff and accomplish policy goals. so5 public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. nrdc works on a broad range of issues as we pursue our mission to safeguard the earth; its people, its plants and animals, and the natural systems on which all life depends. the six priority issues on which we seek to influence public policy are: 1. curbing global warming and creating the clean energy future: climate change is the single biggest environmental and humanitarian crisis of our time. the world must unite to combat this crisis, and our best weapon is clean energy. renewable power, conservation, energy efficiency in buildings and elsewhere, more efficient vehicles, and clean fuels— these are the solutions that will reduce the impacts on our climate, revive our economy, and create jobs. nrdc works to jumpstart the clean energy future not only here in america, but also in china, where we have worked on energy issues for more than a decade, and in india, where we have established a new program to promote clean energy policies. 2. reviving the world’s oceans: the world’s oceans are on the brink of ecological collapse. we can restore marine vitality by ending overfishing, creating marine protected areas, and improving the way we govern our oceans. 3. defending endangered wildlife and wild places: the destruction of our last remaining wildlands means the loss of vast troves of biological diversity, critical regulators of global climate, and irreplaceable sanctuaries. nrdc sustainability as an ethical imperative 31 4. protecting our health by preventing pollution: we must reduce or eliminate the dangerous chemicals in the products we buy, the food we eat, and the air we breathe. 5. ensuring safe and sufficient water: as we enter the 21st century, swelling demand and changing climate patterns are draining rivers and aquifers as pollution threatens the quality of what remains. 6. fostering sustainable communities: the choices we make for where and how we live have enormous impacts on our well-being, economy, and natural environment. nrdc develops and advocates sustainable solutions for our communities. so6 total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. nrdc is a corporation exempt from taxation under section 501 (c) (3) of the internal revenue code and as such does not participate in or intervene in (including the publishing or distributing of statements) any political campaign on behalf of (or in opposition to) any candidate for public office. the nrdc action fund is an affiliated but separate organization that is exempt from taxation under section 501 (c) (4) of the internal revenue code, and as such it engages in a limited amount of political campaign activities. in 2013, the action fund formed a federally connected political action committee that has begun making cash and in-kind contributions to candidates (subject to various restrictions). to date, the action fund has reported approximately $36,000 in such contributions.