 improving sustainability on rented farms landowners who are not farmers own 62% of midwest farmland, meaning growers are leasing much of the land they farm. the nature conservancy is working with partners to help landowners and farmers work together to commit to new conservation practices, ensuring a healthier landscape for growing food and water supplies. new water funds launching in colombia the nature conservancy and the latin american water funds partnership pioneered water funds in latin america. the programs allow cities to fund protection of upstream water sources, such as forests and rivers, to ensure their own water security. in colombia, thanks to a new coalition of more than 40 partners, the goal is to impact five priority watersheds by 2022. global cooperation protects indonesian fisheries u.s. consumer demand for plate-sized, juvenile snapper is hurting fish populations in indonesia, the world’s largest source of this valuable fish. thanks to tnc’s efforts, 14 seafood companies have pledged not to buy immature snapper from indonesia and instead focus on the more sustainable harvest of larger, adult snappers. belize nearly triples its marine reserves belize announced a bold plan to protect nearly 12% of its waters—almost tripling its marine reserves. tnc played a key role in this effort, lending scientific insights to fishers committed to identifying critical areas for protection. by giving fish room to recover, belize is securing healthy fisheries across the world’s second-longest reef system. saving nature and expanding agriculture. south america. supplies the world with commodities like beef and soy. seeing rising pressure to expand farm production into remote forests and grasslands— biodiversity hot spots—tnc and international agricultural partners created agroideal.org, a powerful online decision-support tool that is proving to help industry balance growth with protection for nature in brazil, argentina and, soon, paraguay. mapping soil health to track progress on farms farmers. are increasingly using the latest in conservation practices to renew soil health while also protecting water quality and capturing atmospheric carbon. to accelerate the adoption of these practices and better focus assistance efforts, tnc and key agricultural partners are using publicly available satellite imagery to map soil conservation trends across large areas in the midwest. restoring australia’s oyster reefs. the nature conservancy’s expertise is driving a bold effort in australia to restore 60 shellfish reefs in six years. native oyster reefs were almost wiped out in the early 20th century, but at sites such as windara reef, where restoration is underway, new oyster reefs are already fostering diverse marine life. more fish in the sea. the rich seas of baja california support local fishers and provide over 70% of mexico’s commercial fishing catch, but only 1 out of 10 fisheries are managed sustain- ably. over the past three years, tnc and local partners have supported 25 communities in creating no-take fish replenishment zones—allowing populations to rebound. in some of these areas, there have been 30% increases in fish biomass.