 according to recent polls commissioned by nrdc and our partners, an overwhelming majority of americans view chemicals as a serious health threat and support stronger controls. yet washington lawmakers and the white house, siding with the chemical industry, have failed to adopt a host of common-sense measures to protect our families from toxic dangers in toys and other children’s products, cleaning supplies, building materials, fabrics, furniture, electronics, food and beverage containers, and more. in response, nrdc and our allies are fighting state-by-state and chemical-by- chemical to strengthen safeguards against these hidden health hazards, as we escalate pressure on our leaders in washington to act. thanks in part to pressure from nrdc— including targeted action campaigns waged by our leadership, supporters, and thousands of our members and online activists—a strong federal bill was introduced in the senate in april 2011 that would enhance the environmental protection agency’s authority (and responsibility) to regulate toxic chemicals. we are working with safer chemicals, healthy families—a coalition of hundreds of health, science, consumer, and environmental groups—to engage additional sponsors for the safe chemicals act and move it to a floor vote. crucially, this legislation will shift the burden of proof from the epa to the chemical industry in demonstrating whether a chemical is safe to enter or remain on the market. we are also gaining ground in our campaigns to reduce exposure to and use of specific chemicals, including hexavalent chromium, a carcinogen made famous by the film erin brockovich. after fending off two attempts to oust our case from federal court, we settled a lawsuit against ppg industries for its toxic legacy of hexavalent chromium contamination in a densely populated community in jersey city, new jersey. the settlement calls for a 700,000-ton cleanup to standards more protective than state chromium guidelines and includes funding for community expert oversight. meanwhile, california’s environmental protection agency announced in july that it was setting a safe level for hexavalent chromium in drinking water. nrdc health experts have been battling for years to advance this crucial standard, the first of its kind in the nation and a major step toward enforceable limits on the toxic compound in drinking water. also in california, the state legislature passed a bill that would ban the use of bisphenol a (bpa) in baby bottles and sippy cups, capping a three-year push by nrdc’s los angeles leadership council and our california-based online activists. bpa has been linked to reproductive abnormalities and other diseases and poses special risks to fetuses, infants, and young children. california is the 11th u.s. state to adopt the ban. this move spurred the chemical industry to petition the fda to remove bpa nationwide to assure market uniformity. in a consent agreement with nrdc, fda has agreed to make a decision this spring. moving forward, our health team will continue to contribute its technical expertise to local efforts aimed at strengthening restrictions on unsafe chemicals, including toxic flame retardants, bpa, and phthlates across the country.