 until a few years ago, it was difficult to find any upholstered furniture that wasn’t filled with toxic flame- retardant chemicals, which were added to these products in the name of fire safety. despite that purported intention, little evidence exists to support the claim that adding flame-retardant chemicals is effective in preventing the spread of fire. worse, these chemicals have been linked to cancer, reduced iq, hyperactivity, and interference with hormone systems. during their production, use, and disposal, they also contaminate our air and water. “these chemicals have been showing up everywhere and building up in people, pets, and the environment,” says avinash kar, a senior attorney in the healthy people & thriving communities program. “children are particularly vulnerable since they are still developing.” because of these concerns, nrdc, together with a coalition of california-based groups that include the center for environmental health (ceh) and the consumer federation of california, has spent years pushing to stop the inclusion of these chemicals in household products. and it isn’t just pub- lic health advocates who have fought for the change. nrdc has also worked closely with the california professional firefighters (cpf), who face alarmingly high rates of cancer as well as high exposure to toxic flame-retardant chemicals. “when a firefighter enters a structure fire, we’re surrounded by a haze of cancer-causing toxins, including those contained in a chemical flame retardant,” said adam cosner, santa clara county firefighters local 1165, in a video made with the nrdc communications team that was distributed widely on social media in the summer and fall of 2018. “historically, we fought fires that had natural fiber materials. the combustibles were wood and wool and cotton. they burned clean, they burned slow, and they burned cooler. now our fires are plastics and synthetics and man-made materials, and because of that, everything else in the room is ignited as well.” alongside our partners, we’ve seen numerous advancements on the issue over the years. these include an update of the upholstered furniture fire-safety standard in 2013, which provides for fire safety without the use of flame retardants. this was followed by the passage of the toxic furniture right-to-know bill in 2014, cosponsored by nrdc with ceh and cpf, which gives shoppers clear information about the chemicals contained in their purchases. then, in 2018, as a continuation of the campaign to address the ongoing use of these chemicals in many products, nrdc, cpf, and ceh worked with california assembly member richard bloom on new state legislation prohibiting the sale of furniture, certain children’s products, and mattress foam that contain flame-retardant chemicals, which would go into effect in 2020. at a california senate hearing in june, cosner testified, saying, “these products are added to furniture in the belief that they are making them safer from fire. as a firefighter, i can tell you that these toxic retardants provide no meaningful fire-safety benefit.” the bill passed the legislature with bipartisan support and was followed by an action alert that resulted in thousands of california-based nrdc activists urging governor jerry brown to sign it into law. in september 2018, the governor followed through, closing the loop on a significant public health issue. given california’s market influence, this will reduce exposures not only for californians but nationwide.