 the removal of the saeltzer dam gave endangered chinook salmon a new lease on life along clear creek in northern california. more dam removals in the san francisco bay/san joaquin delta estuary are planned as part of calfed, an ambitious restoration program in which the nature conservancy is playing a key role. in october 2000, conservationists and government officials wearing “dam buster tour” hard hats looked on as a backhoe began ripping chunks out of the century-old saeltzer dam in northern california. for the endangered chinook salmon in full spawning color below the dam, this was a new chance at life. for the participants, including the nature conservancy, it was the first chapter in the story of saving the san francisco bay/san joaquin delta estuary. for nearly a decade before the concrete started falling, the conservancy worked with the 24 federal and state agencies charged with protecting the bay-delta to finalize a multibillion-dollar protection plan known as calfed. the plan aims to protect and restore the ecological health of the bay-delta while continuing to provide drinking and irrigation water to california residents. to achieve these goals, the agencies and partners are employing a wide array of conservation methods, including land purchases, easements, education and a host of restoration tools. the removal of the dam on clear creek — partially funded through the conservancy by a $1 million grant from the david and lucile packard foundation — was the first step in this landmark effort. the san francisco bay/san joaquin delta estuary is the largest estuary on the west coast and biologically one of the richest areas in the state, supporting more than 750 plants and animals. it also provides water to two-thirds of california’s population and 7 million acres of irrigated farmland. “the calfed restoration program is the largest of its kind planned anywhere in the world,” says leslie friedman-johnson, director of the water program for the conservancy’s california chapter. “it involves a cast of thousands, from local conservation groups to farmers and ranchers to federal agencies. by focusing on restoration of natural processes as well as protection of habitat, calfed is setting a new standard for how large-scale restoration work is done.” the conservancy has already taken the next step in the restoration program. in august 2001, through a calfed grant, the california chapter purchased staten island, a 9,173-acre leveed delta island that annually attracts vast flocks of wintering waterfowl. the chapter also plans to participate in the modification or removal of five dams on battle creek, which will open 42 miles of spawning habitat to three endangered fish species.