 more than 600 indigenous communities live within canada’s boreal forest, one of the planet’s last great forests, at the crown of the continent. their ancestors have resided here for millennia, but indigenous peoples are now facing increasing incursions from industry into their traditional territories, some of which have very little intact forest left. activities like oil and gas development, mining, and bad forestry management—which wipe out about a million acres per year—threaten many parts of the boreal, undermining indigenous peoples’ right to control their land and impacting their way of life. based in ottawa, the indigenous leadership initiative (ili) aims to change that. the five-year-old organization works to strengthen indigenous nationhood and foster sound land conservation and management across canada. one of ili’s goals is the creation of protected areas that reflect tribal law and culture and, under indigenous management, help to sustain fresh water, populations of local wildlife (such as the iconic boreal caribou), and a stable climate. the organization’s director, valérie courtois, who is innu, says indigenous-led conservation efforts across the boreal forest have a pivotal role to play in canada right now, as the country plans to protect at least 17 percent of its lands by 2020, a commitment made under the united nations convention on biological diversity. despite this pledge, many indigenous communities say that canadian federal and provincial governments are not doing enough to protect the boreal. in response, ili is spearheading indigenous-led management initiatives, including a national indigenous guardians network to expand the work of those individuals who monitor the forest’s health, maintain cultural sites, protect sensitive areas and species, and engage in land-use and conservation planning. “it is our vision that with an increased presence of guardians everywhere in canada, the whole system of land and resource management and protection would benefit,” courtois says. for decades, nrdc has worked with indigenous conservation leaders in their quest to protect the boreal forest, whose trees and soils store more carbon than three decades’ worth of fossil fuel emissions. “this is a part of the world that’s still wild,” says anthony swift, director of nrdc’s canada project. “it’s home to a rich biodiversity for north america and is central to the lives and cultural practices of more than a million indigenous peoples. it also plays an indispensable role in helping us win the fight against climate change.” given the importance of the boreal forest and the nature of the threats it faces, the “moccasins and mukluks on the ground,” as the guardians are often referred to, will hold the key to its protection.