 as nrdc's california state lead for clean energy and equity, alexis cureton is working to ensure that communities of color help shape climate policies and reap the economic benefits they offer. growjnc up in tulsa. oklahoma, alexis cureton can still recall his mother's reminders to turn off the lights and not overuse the dishwasher. those pleas gave him an awareness of the scarcity, necessity, and costs of energy-heightened during those cold-weather stretches when his family's finances did not allow them to pay the electric bill. along the way, he wondered: how is energy helping to create comfort and, in its absence, how am i uncomfortable? today, these questions shape cureton's lens at nrdc, where he advocates for california's low-income communities of color to be at the energy decision-making table and for their access to clean energy. cureton knows what it means to be excluded from that table. during graduate school at indiana university's school of public and environmental affairs, he entered a newly formed energy concentration as one of three black students. those few students not only found themselves in the racial minority, but they also found no representation of themselves in the curriculum.the people whose books we were told read were not black, and they ·were not writing about slack people.," cureton says. he worked to counter these feelings of isolation by focusing some of his independent graduate coursework on the government's inadequate response to environmental injustice. he used stipends he received from summer fellowships to buy books by dr. robert 0. bullard, the black man considered the father of environmental justice." bullard had taught at the clark atlanta university, the same historically black research university that cureton had attended as an undergrad, and his writings reinforced to cureton that black people had been fighting for the environment for a long time. cureton felt as if the pages said, ''congratulations, you are part of that group." cureton went on to work as a researcher with groups focused on creating equitable clean energy transitions, including by supporting related job-training opportunities and access to clean mobility for california's low-income communities. the state's affordable housing crisis, he says, has pushed many residents into homes farther away from central business districts. as a result, ""many people are spending more than half of their income on gas." while driving an electric vehicle slashes fuel costs, buying one is out of reach for many. and those who could help raise these affordability issues are too often left out of policy conversations. ''i always strive to make sure that what 1 advocate for comes directly from the community," cureton says. at nrdc, cureton continues to bring community representatives to the table to broaden the discussion around clean energy solutions through the energy efficiency for au initiative. cureton has also been supporting the repower la coalition's erase utility debt campaign, which works to relieve the pressure on residents struggling to pay water and power bills du.e to impacts of the covid-19 pandemic. equally fundamental to his advocacy is his mission to boost energy literacy so that low-income people of color can become their own advocates. the work is urgent. after all, ''energy has played a huge role in the ways that black people live and experience life in this country," cureton says. it is his mission to light the path forward.