 covering almost three-quarters of the earth and harboring more than half of all life, oceans truly define our world. for decades, the nature conservancy has protected marine habitats to the benefit of both biodiversity and coastal communities. we have helped coral reefs bounce back from bleaching events, sustained livelihoods in fishing communities, and preserved some of the world’s most treasured places and species. today, more than ever, people look to the oceans for economic growth. ocean industries such as shipping, energy, seafood and coastal tourism are booming. much of this development is happening without regard to potential long-term environmental impacts. yet we know that when we develop wisely, people can be the ocean’s greatest hope. building on our many years of experience, the conservancy is working to ensure that nature has a central voice in the world’s growing ocean economy. we are ramping up our efforts to protect important marine habitats and direct more investment to natural infrastructure—mangroves, wetlands, and coral and oyster reefs—that strengthen the resilience of coastal communities as storms increase and sea levels rise. our aim is to transform the way humans treat and manage ocean resources, finding sustainable solutions for fisheries and aquaculture as demand grows. working directly with fishers, the seafood industry and key fishing countries, we are increasing the global supply of sustainably harvested seafood, improving economic stability in fishing communities, and conserving more ocean life and habitats. ultimately, we know that inspiring others to act for the oceans will be our most lasting legacy. we are sharing science and solutions from our living laboratories and forging new cross-sector partnerships to empower leaders of governments, companies and communities worldwide to act as stewards of our oceans—from coastal waters to areas beyond national jurisdictions. these strategies are playing out in indonesia’s savu sea, where we are working with all parts of society to create a shared vision for how this marine environment is managed. the challenges confronting our oceans are serious, but the community of people driven to take decisive, meaningful action is growing. together we can chart a sustainable course for our oceans and ensure a future where people and nature thrive.