 on the lofty slopes of hawaii'a mauna · 8 million the number of signatures sent to • 30,000: the total number of leaders, loa volcano, scientists have spent the epa demanding limits on carbon pollution scientists, activists, and others who attended decades measuring the amount of from power plants the paris climate talks carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. in 2015, they • 32 percent: the reduction in carbon pollution • 15,000: the number of people who gathered in recorded carbon level.sin excess of 400 parts per million on more days than in any other year. that's an alarming finding especially to those of us who know that avoiding devastating climate change requires that we keep carbon pollution below 350 parts per million. but there is another set of statistics indicating that the climate movement is finally achieving a powerful convergence of the forces of public support and political will. these numbers, and more like them, are what it will take to reduce the measurements on mauna loe. and begin building e. new, low-carbon future. the following numbers show what momentum looks like. the united states would achieve under the clean power plan • 430,000: the number of concerned citizens who took to the new york city streets for the people's climate march in september 2014 · 78~,000: the number of people who marched for climate action in cities all over the world on the eve of the paris climate summit in december 2015 · go percent.: the amount of all new power generation capacity in the united states that came from renewable power · 177: the number of nations that came to the 2015 paris climate talks with actionable plans st. peter's square to celebrate pope francis's powerful encyclical underscoring our moral obligation to tackle the climate threat in the name of justice, human dignity, and service to the poor and vulnerable the tipping point one. hot morning in august 2015, president obama took his place behind a podium in the white house and announced that the united states would take aggressive action to combat climate change, continuing a fundamental economic shift away from dirty fuels and toward a. clean energy future. "i am convinced that no challenge poses a greater threat to our future and future generations than a changing implementation of the plan, nrdc launched the a vision for the future climate,# obama said as he set the first national climate action legal defense fund to ensure though implementation of the clean power plan limits on carbon pollution from power plants, their challenges would not prevail. nrdc over industry objections would represent a major which are responsible for more u.s. carbon advocates worked to shore up support for the breakthrough. it's only the beginning of what we emissions than any other source, plan in congress and briefed international must do to protect our health, our food and water nrdc president rhea suh and other nrdc allies about this sign of u.s. climate leadership supplies, our ecosystems, and even our cities from policy experts were in the audience that day a in advance of the paris climate talks. and the devastating impacts of climate change, tribute to the fact that nrdc our goal? global carbon pollution helped design and build support for the president's historic clean power plan. nrdc's science and policy teams had created a conceptual framework in 2012 for how pollution limits might be achieved, urged the administration to put standards in place to address the issue, then pushed to make draft rules released in june 201d even stronger. their work didn't end with the president's announcement. nrdc policy analysts jumped into the details and began helping governors, state utility must be cut 80 percent by 2050, naysayers argue that it isn't feasible. but 10 years ago, they didn't believe wind power would be affordable. now it's becoming our cheaper energy resource, bar none, "it's our job to think these steps ahead," says susan casey-lefkowitz, nrdc's chief program officer, we don't just focus on what seems reasonable at the time. we envision what is possible, and we lay the groundwork to create it." to achieve those deep pollution reductions, we must make changes over the next 10 to 20 years, using proven tools like emission limits, efficiency codes, and clean energy incentives. we'll need to demonstrate successful climate action at the regulators, and business city, state, and national levels. and leaders understand their roles in meeting the nrdc communication11 team built public we'll need to stop fossil fuel infrastructure and carbon pollution reduction targets. nrdc awareness and support-letting our 2.4 million leasing that would lock in decades of pollution. litigators prepared to help defend the plan from members and activists know that this plan will "whenever we face a choice of which energy fossil fuel industry lawsuits-and when the create tens of thousands of jobs, make our air pathway to take," says casey-lefkowitz, "we must u.s. supreme court's conservative wing put safer to breathe, and save the average family choose the clean, not the dirty, this is how we will polluter profits first by temporarily blocking $85 a year on energy costs, get where we need to