 did you know your takeout might be coming with a side of harmful chemicals? that’s why nrdc and our allies have called on the u.s. food and drug administration to ban long-chain perfluorocarboxylates (pfcs) and perchlorate, toxic chemicals that are used in pizza boxes, sandwich wrappers, and other food packaging. fourteen recent studies support the fda’s own concerns that pfcs can cause serious harm, from problems with pre- and postnatal development to adult reproduction, while perchlorate has been linked to brain-development concerns. hold the side of health problems, please. perchlorate is easily adsorbed through your mouth and can migrate from the stomach and intestines to the bloodstream. safe housing for all new yorkers four-hundred thousand people live in the new york city housing authority’s low- income residences, many of which are plagued by pervasive mold and excessive moisture, exacerbating asthma and other health issues. challenging the city’s failure to provide healthy housing, nrdc and the national center for law and economic justice took legal action on behalf of those tenants and, in december 2013, reached a settlement that will require the city agency to clean up its act. pesticides don’t belong in clothing antibacterial, odor-fighting shirts might sound like a great idea, but the truth is, their magic comes from a pesticide called nanosilver. silver is already a highly toxic antimicrobial, especially for sea life, but this smaller, stronger version can penetrate human organs and tissues. as part of an effort to get nanosilver removed from textiles—baby blankets, towels, pillowcases, and clothing—nrdc filed a lawsuit, and ultimately, an appeals court agreed that the u.s. environmental protection agency didn’t follow its own rules for determining whether the pesticide is safe to use in products. protecting families from toxic chemicals at home from your couch to your carpet, many furnishings have been treated with flame-retardant chemicals, which are associated with cancer, infertility, birth defects, and other serious diseases. some of the highest levels of these chemicals ever measured have been found in the bodies of california’s children. thanks in part to nrdc’s advocacy, governor jerry brown announced new standards that will reduce california’s exposure to toxic and untested flame retardants, setting a strong precedent for the rest of the country. stronger standards for soot emissions from increased asthma and heart attacks to premature death, soot pollution can seriously harm health. yet industry leaders wanted to overturn the u.s. environmental protection agency’s updated clean-air standards that tightened the limits on the harmful substance. nrdc and our allies intervened, and in may 2014, a federal appeals court rejected the industry’s challenges. in the weeks surrounding that decision, two other major court cases upheld similar epa efforts: protections for people who live downwind from power plant smokestacks in other states, and limits on power plant emissions of mercury and other dangerous toxins.