 new yorkers of all walks of life joining forces to realize a better urban world. “my husband and i have been longtime nature conservancy supporters. being in the outdoors around the world has always been important to us. but we are also intensely city people and love being new yorkers. the conservancy’s recent push toward ‘green urban’ made a lot of sense to us. more than 60 percent of the world’s population is living in cities now, so if humans are going to have that connection with nature, then humans in cities need to have a closer tie with nature in cities. so i was glad to see the conservancy take a leading position toward that. and a key part is also in the education sector. their work through leaf with local schools, like the harbor school here, and others around the country, is really important for humanity, but it’s also important for the future of the nature conservancy.” “i had a great leaf mentor who taught us about invasive species upstate. that led to another opportunity with afs to learn from an environmental project in germany. i don’t know what i want to do for a career yet, so i’m taking a gap year before college to figure that out. but i hope to do some payback then to tnc and afs for the opportunities they gave me. if i do pursue studies in science or engineering, i’m excited about things like vertical farming in cities and growing food closer to the people who consume it, as well as rebuilding oyster reefs to help clean the city’s rivers and even become a food source here again.” “i had a great leaf mentor who taught us about invasive species upstate. that led to another opportunity with afs to learn from an environmental project in germany. i don’t know what i want to do for a career yet, so i’m taking a gap year before college to figure that out. but i hope to do some payback then to tnc and afs for the opportunities they gave me. if i do pursue studies in science or engineering, i’m excited about things like vertical farming in cities and growing food closer to the people who consume it, as well as rebuilding oyster reefs to help clean the city’s rivers and even become a food source here again.” “the nature conservancy’s new focus on urban areas is a natural fit with new york city and its newly released onenyc plan, which prioritizes the use of natural infrastructure as part of its climate adaptation and resiliency program. by strengthening our connection to nature, we can ensure that new york city is ready to withstand and emerge stronger from the impacts of climate change and other 21st-century threats.”