 making cities more livable and hubs for pollution prevention. cities that use nature-based solutions can enhance people’s well-being and reduce the pollution generated by cities’ millions of inhabitants. by midcentury, two of every three people on earth will live in a city. this massive human migration from rural to urban is unprecedented in human history. tnc's focus on reimagining cities as places where both people and nature thrive has benefits that ripple out to the lands and waters surrounding urban areas. by creating healthy communities that foster a deeper human connection to nature, we will improve lives for city dwellers and inspire an ethic of stewardship. after decades of population decline, washington, d.c. is now a growing city again, as its skyline of construction cranes can attest. the city has a checkered past with the potomac and anacostia rivers. rain runs off roofs, rushes across petroleum-polluted roads and parking lots, carrying chemicals, garbage and animal waste into surrounding waterways. more than 3 billion gallons of stormwater runoff and raw sewage flow into the district's rivers each year, making it the fastest-growing source of water pollu - tion in the chesapeake bay. like many cities, washington has a mandate to address stormwater runoff. but the district has a unique advantage: innovative regulations on new construction that allow for cash flow generation. there are two important components to these regulations. first, developers are required to address the stormwater runoff caused by their new construction and renovation projects—but they can take care of half of these abatement requirements by purchasing stormwater retention credits from offsite green infrastructure projects. that’s where we get demand for the projects. second, properties throughout the district—both new and old construction—can install green infrastructure projects, like rain gardens, that generate credits. they can sell these credits back to developers to generate revenue and recoup their costs. there’s your supply. washington’s progressive regulations also facilitate partnerships with diverse organizations that can make big conservation gains. in this case, a religious organization, a conservation group, civil engineers, construction contractors, scientists, asset managers and impact investors all came together to address the common goal of reducing stormwater runoff. tnc is building similar alliances in cities around the world, from los angeles, philadelphia and providence in the u.s. to the burgeoning metropolis of shenzhen, china, to create replicable urban conservation models. with nature as our ally, we aim to improve the quality of life for more than a 100 million people in cities around the world by 2025 and build a movement for nature-based solutions so that people and nature thrive together.