 just a decade ago, china’s yangtze, mekong and salween rivers weren’t even on the nature conservancy’s radar screen. today, natural treasures along these flowing lifelines are being protected — thanks to the dedication of people like rose niu. when hired in late 1997 as chief representative of the conservancy’s yunnan great rivers project, niu dedicated the next two years — even skipping vacations — to lay the groundwork for conservation. niu’s family donated her childhood home in lijiang as an office for the conservancy cause. she was instrumental in coordinating a link between chinese authorities — including up to 40 government agencies and academic institutions — and the conservancy, as the partners mapped out high-priority plants, animals and landscapes. niu’s exhaustive efforts paid off in mid 2001 when the partners finished a master plan for conserving northwest yunnan province’s natural resources. the plan identifies key conservation areas as well as strategies to reduce or eliminate threats to those resources. the yunnan project area is 26,600 square miles — roughly the size of ireland or west virginia. during the planning process, government officials proposed that the legally designated protected areas within the project be doubled by adding another 3.46 million acres of nature reserves. that yet-to-be-approved change would put a full quarter of the project area into reserves — a boon for some of china’s prime remaining forests, as well as the red panda, snow leopard and thousands of other species that live there. “i played the role of the bridge because it was easier for me to communicate the conservancy’s mission and goals,” niu explains. “at first, people here were suspicious of a nonprofit coming in. but because the whole process was participatory, it was well-received.” the plan includes teaching conservation techniques to 60 to 80 yunnan nature reserve managers and government representatives. meili snow mountain, lashi lake and laojun mountain are three priority sites where plans call for compatible economic development, such as ecotourism, that will meet the needs of people in one of china’s poorest areas without crowding out rich biological resources. in addition, the partners are introducing alternative energy sources to preserve forests. the need for fuel wood to power cook stoves and heat homes is denuding forests and contributing to severe soil erosion on yunnan’s mountainsides. “it doesn’t matter to me how hard i have to work,” niu says. “we’re doing something that is useful for my people and for my country. i feel very proud and happy.”