 in the course of his daily work, nrdc chief counsel mitch bernard takes on big polluters, climate deniers, and their powerful allies. in his 30 years with nrdc, he’s racked up victories that have had—and continue to have—a major impact on america’s environmental policy. now, after decades of progress in the fight to defend the health of the planet, nrdc must grapple with an american president who, as bernard puts it, is “hell-bent on dismantling our environmental and human health protections— and at a pace that’s unprecedented.” to keep up with the onslaught of assaults, the legal team that bernard oversees grew by almost 30 percent in the year following trump’s inauguration and will continue to expand further. bernard and his fellow attorneys have consistently shown how litigating on behalf of the environment is, in fact, litigating on behalf of people. in a recent lawsuit, a contingent of the team, led by senior attorney dimple chaudhary, represented the citizens of flint, michigan, in their battle for clean water and environmental justice. as a direct result of the suit, the government will spend $97 million to replace thousands of lead-bearing water service lines in flint by 2020—a major step forward toward ending the city’s water crisis. mitch bernard nrdc chief counsel elsewhere, a long-running case, first filed in 2000, has pitted bernard and his colleagues aaron colangelo, a codirector of the litigation team, and attorney jared thompson against mallinckrodt, a chemical company that dumped up to 12 tons of mercury into maine’s penobscot river. but for the pressure brought to bear by citizen-inspired litigation, bernard says, people in the penobscot region would still be eating contaminated fish and shellfish, including maine’s iconic lobster. state and federal governments were prepared to just leave the issue alone. but data generated by a court order in the case caused the state of maine to close a 12.5 square mile portion of the river, protecting the public. nrdc and its local client, the maine people’s alliance, are now seeking a comprehensive cleanup effort. the penobscot mercury case reinforced one of nrdc’s founding principles. “polluters, no matter how powerful and no matter how well they’ve managed to escape government enforcement in the past, have to comply with the law,” says bernard. “they must clean up the messes they make.” when he began his career, “the mainstream environmental movement was dominated by concerns for land and resources by themselves,” says bernard. and while those original values persist, environmentalists have broadened their sense of what’s at stake and what deserves protection—such as our cultural heritage, our health, and universal access to clean water, clean air, and green space. in other words, advocates like bernard believe the movement must defend not only our varied habitats but all their inhabitants, too. “the trump administration, during its first year, has exited rapidly from [the executive’s] role as the primary enforcer of environmental laws,” bernard says. “citizens are going to have to fill that space.” fortunately, a host of federal statutes exist to empower citizens to sue polluters directly when the government fails to act. bernard notes that nrdc has added nearly 150,000 new members since election day 2016—a testament to their faith in the organization to head up the legal resistance against the administration and its harmful environmental policies. “their outpouring of support for the work we’re doing is enormous,” he says, “and enormously gratifying.”