 from pasadena to poughkeepsie, nrdc’s solutions are making our air and water cleaner, our food and household products safer, and our homes more efficient— and less expensive— to run. we apply our unparalleled scientific, legal, and policy expertise to hold our government to account, keep corporate polluters at bay, and get smart solutions in place now, helping millions of american families save money and live healthier. keeping our air free from pollution protecting the sources of clean water nrdc developed a portfolio-based approach to restoring the largest estuary on the west coast to improve the reliability of water supply in california. across the state, nrdc’s plan was supported by federal, state, and local elected officials, business and conservation groups, and the boards of water agencies serving 25 percent of urban california. california’s governor jerry brown subsequently adopted the same type of portfolio-based statewide water management strategy. nrdc went on to develop a website that allows californians to learn where their water comes from—and what their water supply. as part of this effort, nrdc highlighted the efforts of five southern california water agencies to reduce reliance on imported water and invest in sustainable water supplies. keeping our air free from pollution ozone, the main constituent of smog, is a highly irritating gas that shortens people’s lives, worsens asthma and other lung diseases, and is highly damaging to trees and plants. in a lawsuit brought by nrdc, a federal court found that in 2008 the environmental protection agency violated the clean air act when it refused to set protective standards and ignored the unanimous recommendation of its independent science advisers. nrdc challenged the bush administration’s health and welfare standards when they were set and resumed the legal battle in 2011 when the obama administration decided to ignore overwhelming scientific research and the opinion of experts that much stronger standards were needed. getting toxics out of the water supply nearly two decades after erin brockovich waged her battle against an industry cover-up of hexavalent chromium contamination in the tiny community of hinkley, california, an estimated 31 million californians are still exposed to unsafe levels of the carcinogen due to government inaction. in fact, at least 74 million americans in thousands of communities across 42 states drink tap water polluted with “total chromium,” which includes hexavalent and other forms of the metal. tired of waiting for california’s department of health to set a standard for hexavalent chromium in drinking water—eight years past its deadline—nrdc filed suit with a partner group. in july 2013, a judge ordered the department of public health to set a standard by august 2013. although there is now a standard, when the state issued an unacceptably weak standard, nrdc pushed back. we will continue pressing the state to adhere to its most basic mandate: ensuring that millions of residents can drink their water without fear.