 the largest conservation land acquisition in connecticut’s history will protect large swaths of unbroken forest — critical habitat for the black bear and other species. in june 2001, the connecticut legislature approved the largest conservation land acquisition in state history: a joint purchase of more than 15,000 acres of western connecticut’s unspoiled forests, rivers and reservoirs by the state department of environmental protection (dep) and the nature conservancy. the deal marked a milestone in the conservancy’s efforts to preserve unbroken forestland throughout the state. the acreage was owned by the kelda water company and had long been the subject of controversy. “there was a very well-organized grass-roots coalition pushing a plan, strongly opposed by kelda, to conserve open space by converting the private company into a public water authority,” recalls conservancy government relations director david sutherland, who spent considerable time discussing alternative approaches with the company and the coalition. ultimately, all parties came together in support of a final acquisition plan. kelda agreed to sell the lands, which were appraised at $193 million, for $90 million, affording the company considerable tax benefits. the conservancy will contribute $10 million and acquire a conservation interest in 8,000 acres, and the dep will supply the remaining $80 million. “this really was a collaborative effort, with lots of lobbying and negotiating on all sides from start to finish,” says sutherland, who credits connecticut governor john rowland with making the deal happen. “he broke negotiating logjams several times. and he came through with the money when it seemed like things would fall apart otherwise.” the deal has been widely praised as an excellent way to protect water quality, preserve habitat for vanishing species like black bear and bobcat and enhance scenic and recreational values. says dennis mcgrath, director of the conservancy’s connecticut chapter, “we have only a few opportunities left to protect large, unfragmented forests in this region of the world. the kelda deal will go a long way in ensuring that our forests, and the life they support, will grace the landscape for years to come.”