 alison “sunny” power professor in the department of ecology and evolutionary biology and the department of science and technology studies and dean of the graduate school at cornell university, and the nature conservancy’s presidential university fellow for 2002-2003. my lasting impression... the arctic tundra near nome, alaska, with its huge sky, intriguing plants and stark winters. what i want to contribute... a deeper understanding of the relationship between agriculture and conservation, including the development of sustainable farming solutions that can be used in diverse landscapes worldwide. when alison power was a child, her mother would pile the kids into the car on a friday night and drive to point grenville on the washington state coast, just for the experience of waking up on the beach. nicknamed “sunny” for her cheerful disposition, power grew up loving the crash of the waves, the craggy cliffs and the rocky tide pools. but it took the frozen tundra to melt her heart. spending time with her father in nome, alaska, power learned to love the unexpected beauty of extremes. she learned to treasure the sheer power of nature in a seemingly bleak winter wilderness. and in college, when the scientist in her emerged, power came to appreciate the rich ecological laboratory even earth’s most barren habitats provide. it was in the tropics of costa rica, studying biology, that power’s experiences in nature began to reveal their purpose. as she traveled the country, between pristine tropical forests she saw pocket after pocket of farmland—a stark contrast to the uninterrupted wildness of alaska. the interplay of agriculture and natural habitat startled power’s conservationist sensibility and prompted a life-changing question: “maybe my calling as a scientist wasn’t to explore earth’s extremes,” she says, “but to study the agricultural practices that connect people to the natural world?” the interplay of agriculture and habitat power began to study plants and insects, their diseases and their interaction in the context of agriculture. her goals: to devise more benign forms of pest control, so that farmers could work their land with less impact, and to understand various threats to plants in their natural communities. in 1985, power’s work led her to cornell university, where she now teaches ecology and evolutionary biology and pursues interests in science and technology, international agriculture and rural development, and conservation and sustainable development. power also is a member of cornell’s latin american studies program, and has done extensive work on biodiversity in agroecosystems and tropical ecology. her current research addresses the ecological risks of genetically engineered crops. a member of numerous national and international councils on science and ecology, power has earned recognition for her dedicated teaching and sound research. her vision encompasses the “micro” level of science and its practical application on an international scale. power’s expertise and experience make her an important contributor to the mission of the nature conservancy, which chose her as its first presidential university fellow in 2002. through this two-year association, she shares her perspective on the global relationship between agriculture and land conservation. balancing human needs with nature collaborating closely with the conservancy’s staff and other scientists, power is working to integrate agricultural considerations into all phases of the conservancy’s conservation by design strategy. in addition to exploring sustainable approaches to farming and forestry, she’s looking at the ways in which the conservation of biodiversity can go hand-in-hand with agricultural activities. through her work at cornell and with the conservancy, power has found a way to unite her passion for diverse natural settings with her professional calling to be of service to nature, in all its variety. “working in costa rica, where farms and tropical forests coexist in close proximity, i saw that, to make a contribution as a scientist, i needed to do something that would help manage human activities on the planet,” she says. her realization echoes a core belief of the nature conservancy: that, just as earth’s habitats encompass extremes, conservation must embrace the farms and forests, shores and plains where humans touch nature, as well as earth’s pristine places.