 engaging emerald edge indigenous communities. the emerald edge is the largest intact coastal temperate rainforest on earth, spanning 100 million acres in southeast alaska, coastal british columbia, and washington state’s olympic peninsula. it’s home to more than 50 indigenous communities, whose culture and livelihood are rooted in these lands and waters and whose stewardship is crucial to its future. to succeed, we’re putting the priorities of indigenous and local people first—investing in youth generating new wealth and long-term economic resources, and creating new peer connections across the region so that people can learn from and inspire each other. a community-led initiative in canada supported by tnc, the supporting emerging aboriginal stewards (seas), enables transformative and lasting conservation by engaging indigenous youth and reviving traditional stewardship. reaching more than 450 students per year, seas connects youth of all ages to their traditional lands and waters, as well as their culture, language and traditional role as stewards. collaboration with indigenous partners and guardians in canada to create the indigenous guardians toolkit: a free and open online platform for indigenous communities to learn, share and connect about their on-the-ground stewardship work. economic development with spruce root, a non- profit lender with a mission to assist southeast alaska's people and businesses to reach their full potential through loan capital and support services that promote economic, social, cultural and environmental resiliency. expanding great bear's scope. building on more than a decade of transformative change in the great bear rainforest, the canadian affiliate of the nature conservancy is supporting indigenous-led marine management to create a sea-to- summit conservation corridor spanning 46 million acres of land and water along the british columbia coast. the project helps to fulfill a commitment of canada’s federal government to protect at least 10 percent of its marine and coastal areas by 2020. we have already seen early success: our support of the marine plan partnership for the north pacific coast (mapp), led by indigenous first nations in partnership with the british columbia government, has laid the foundation for a new model of collaborative marine management. securing sea turtles on the gulf coast. the kemp’s ridley is the smallest and most critically endangered of the five sea turtle species that inhabit the gulf of mexico. north and south padre island off the coast of texas provide prime nesting habitat for the species. tnc has conserved more than 25,000 acres in the south padre island region since 2000. by early 2019, we’ll add more than 6,000 acres in the largest conservation deal on south padre island in nearly 20 years, tapping mitigation funding from the deepwater horizon oil spill. while the northern and southern tips of padre island have been developed, the 90 miles of beach on which these tracts sit represent some of the largest remaining privately owned land on the world’s longest barrier island. a federal fix for wildfire fight longer and more catastrophic wildfire seasons have become a new normal around the globe. in the united states, a policy fix was needed in order for the federal government to keep up with the increasing need for wildfire suppression while not taking funds from other critical forest restoration and conservation priorities. tnc led a four-year campaign for a federal funding bill to give congress the ability to allocate up to an additional $2.95 billion each year to pay for major fires through 2027. we then rallied our executives, board mem- bers and state trustees to advocate for the bill’s passage, which was successful. mapping the sea’s coral reefs by combining tnc expertise and using the latest technology in satellite and hyperspectral imagery, we are creating the first-ever high-resolution maps of coral reefs and coastal habitat throughout the caribbean. this will inform coral reef conservation efforts in ways never before possible. along with planet, a company specializing in state-of-the-art satellite imaging technologies, and the planet and carnegie airborne observatory, an aircraft with hyperspectral imaging sensors, we are piloting a new level of coral understanding in the caribbean—providing never-before-seen detail that can support smarter planning and decision-making. guiding landowners to conservation options. the nature conservancy tracks every parcel of land we would like to see protected in hawaii. even if it will never become a tnc pre- serve, we work to match the landowner with the right agency and the right funding so that it receives the best long-term care. recently we played a leading role in advocating for the transfer of 10,000 acres of native forest on the big island of hawaii from mccandless ranch to the hakalau forest national wildlife refuge. the land had been the number one national acquisition priority of the u.s. fish and wildlife service for the past three years. ensuring ongoing lottery funding for nature tnc was a leading partner of a coalition that worked to get the colorado lottery reauthorized by the state legislature in 2018. reauthorization was among our highest priorities because the lottery—and funding for great outdoors colorado (goco)— was scheduled to end in 2025. the lottery is the sole funding source for goco, and reauthorization makes sure that funding continues through 2049 to invest in land protection, open spaces, and wildlife. many of tnc’s land protection projects and preserves in the state have been funded through goco, including carpenter ranch, j.e. canyon ranch, and medano zapata ranch. undoing dam damage for the delaware. a team of partners led by tnc succeeded in removing the columbia lake dam, an 18-foot-high, 330-foot-long barrier that has for more than a cen- tury degraded water quality and blocked fish passage in the paulins kill, the third largest new jersey tributary to the delaware river. the dam’s effects were so negative that it was ranked in the top 5 percent of nearly 14,000 dams prioritized for removal in the northeast. the completed $7 million dam removal and subsequent river restoration will allow people to enjoy better recreational opportunities and shad to swim freely to their spawning grounds for the first time in 109 years. a partnership for wildlife and carbon bridgestone americas, inc. donated 5,763 acres to tnc. the property, now known as the bridgestone nature reserve at chestnut mountain, is located on the cumberland plateau, about 80 miles east of nashville, tennessee, and provides habitat to more than 100 species of conservation concern, including the golden eagle, the eastern slender glass lizard, the barking treefrog and the green salamander. the new reserve will include low-impact public access with connector trails to other protected lands in the area. the conservancy will manage a carbon sequestration project on the property that is expected to offset carbon emissions of bridgestone tower, the company’s corporate headquarters in downtown nashville.