 the challenge: approximately one-third the size of the continental united states, the greater caribbean basin is a study in complexity. whereas other ecoregions are connected by land, the states, countries and islands that border the caribbean are connected by water, sharing currents, fisheries and other aquatic resources. biologically, the caribbean is one of the richest places on earth: its marine habitats sustain 60 species of corals and more than 1,500 species of fish, and an estimated 40 percent of its terrestrial vertebrates and plants exist nowhere else. intense human pressures also make this one of the world’s most threatened places; scientists estimate that less than 10 percent of the region’s original vegetation remains intact. biology isn’t the only source of the caribbean basin’s unique character. because the area is made up of more than 30 countries—including cuba, the dominican republic, haiti, mexico, venezuela and the united states—conservation solutions must transcend geographical and cultural borders, deal with political sensitivities, address differing conservation priorities and engage diverse stakeholders in a long-term, large-scale conservation strategy. how we’re making a difference: to create a science-based conservation strategy that matches the region’s scale and complexity, the nature conservancy has undertaken an intensive two-year study of the greater caribbean basin, addressing both the biology and the socioeconomics of the region. data and tools yielded during this intense assessment will guide a state-of-the-art conservation plan, enabling sound, pragmatic conservation decisions. the assessment is also deepening our strategic partnerships with local organizations—key to achieving lasting conservation results. by pairing conservancy science with the knowledge and influence of local partners, we will be able to establish a common vision for the greater caribbean basin that identifies and characterizes high-priority sites and sets strategies for protecting the region’s irreplaceable terrestrial, freshwater, coastal and marine biodiversity.