 the challenge: on the big island of hawaii, between 2,000 feet in elevation and the summit of mauna loa volcano at 13,000 feet, spectacular and diverse ecosystems converge. mesic, wet and subalpine forests, alpine desert and lava flows host many forms of life found nowhere else on earth, including dozens of rare and endangered hawaiian birds and plants. one of the world’s largest, most active volcanoes and a prime location for volcano research, mauna loa is also a rich archaeological site, with ancient trails, religious features, home sites and other links to a hawaiian culture dating back more than 700 years. these diverse resources face a variety of threats, from feral animals and invasive, non-native plants to development and subdivision. they also have attracted the interest of a diverse group of supporters, from conservationists and scientists to local hawaiian communities looking to preserve links to their cultural heritage. protecting land and water while allowing access to the site for human use will require cooperation among many entities and a flexible long-term conservation strategy. how we’re making a difference: to protect mauna loa’s natural habitat and historic value, the conservancy partnered with the national park service to acquire the 116,000-acre kahuku ranch so that it could be added to hawaii volcanoes national park. the acquisition, the largest private conservation purchase in hawaii history, links conservation land owned by federal, state and private agencies to create 500,000 contiguous acres of protected habitat, expanding the land area of hawaii volcanoes national park by nearly 50 percent. the conservancy’s 8,000-acre kona hema preserve is part of this protected territory. kahuku ranch, a sprawling natural wonder of lava flows, koa-`ohi`a forests, ancient hawaiian archaeological sites and pasture lands, was purchased from a private estate in july 2003 for $22 million. adding to federal funds previously secured by hawaii’s congressional delegation, congress appropriated $8.5 million toward the purchase in 2003, and the national park service reallocated $2 million from other projects. federal support for the acquisition now totals $18 million. the conservancy provided bridge funding to cover the remainder of the price. once congress appropriates the final $4 million, the conservancy will be reimbursed and ownership of the property will be transferred entirely to the national park service. placing the ranch within the park will help the park service manage threats to the land’s conservation, scientific and cultural value and deliver lasting results.