 balancing water use down under. murray-darling basin, australia. the murray-darling basin is one of the world’s largest river basins, draining water from one-seventh of australia’s landmass into the murray and darling rivers. the basin grows a third of australia’s food and creates habitat for more than 50 endangered species. it’s also at risk of drying up. decades of rerouting too much water to farms, combined with climate- change-fueled droughts, have significantly reduced the supply. the nature conservancy is helping lead the way to a new future for the basin with the creation of the australian balanced water fund. “balanced” is the key: the fund aims to provide water security for farming families during droughts while re-nourishing critical wetlands during wetter periods. the conservancy has used the fund to purchase 1,300 mega-liters of water rights and recently watered its first wetland, a 177-acre test plot. climate- proofing sea turtle nests solomon islands six out of seven sea turtle species live or nest in the asia pacific. many will migrate thousands of miles in their lifetime, but they can’t outswim sea-level rise: the remote island beaches where turtles lay their eggs are at high risk of erosion. the nature conservancy is working to “climate-proof” critical nesting sites through a combination of new technology and old-fashioned land protection. conservancy scientists and community rangers in the solomon islands recently installed satellite trackers on 10 turtles’ backs using a gentle adhesive. analysis of the turtles’ gps coordinates will tell us where they’re feeding and nesting. conservancy staff then can focus on protecting climate-resilient beaches nearby, where higher slopes and sand dunes can shelter turtle hatchlings for years to come. planting to capture carbon inner mongolia, china. every year, howling winds pick up dry surface soil from mongolia’s deserts and shower it on china, destroying farmland, threatening wildlife and making the air dangerous to breathe. the increasing severity of these storms is one symptom of drought, deforestation and destructive farming practices that have degraded mongolia’s landscapes. a new “carbon sink” project created by the nature conservancy with support of lao niu foundation and others will have a direct impact on these storms. the horinger demonstration area will restore more than 2,500 hectares of forest, shrubby areas and grasslands in china’s inner mongolia. the project is estimated to sequester 220,000 tons of carbon dioxide over the next 30 years. great apes and greenhouse gases east kalimantan, indonesia. the lush tropical rainforests of indonesia are amongst the fastest being cut down in the world. unsustainable timber harvesting and mining not only threaten the orangutans that live in these trees—and are currently listed as “critically endangered”—but also release tons of carbon dioxide into an already-warming atmosphere. now, the nature conservancy is charting a better course for this forest through the new, ambitious green growth compact with the province of east kalimantan on the island of borneo. the compact includes 19 signatories from government agencies, companies, communi- ties and other nonprofits. it aims to help the province reduce emissions by 1,000 tons of co2 equivalent per $1 million usd gross domestic product, while increasing economic growth by 8 percent by 2030. it’s great news for local villagers, orang- utans and especially our climate. blueprint benefits herders, snow leopards south gobi province, mongolia. mongolia’s grasslands are a softly rolling sea of green, brushed by cloud-cast shadows and dotted with livestock. the country’s parliament set a goal of protecting 30 percent of mongolia’s lands—roughly 116 million acres—by 2030. but where to start? the nature conservancy provided science-based recommendations for priority sites to the mongolian ministry of environment, green development and tourism. those recommendations were combined with input from local governments, communities, scientists and nongovernmental organizations, then adopted by the ministry this year in its draft national master plan for protected areas. the government also recently approved two new key conservation areas prioritized by the conservancy: • twenty sites, spanning 20 million acres, were identified in south gobi province to offset one of the world’s largest copper mines in the area. • nearly 2 million acres in the tost mountains were protected to safeguard habitat for endangered snow leopards. real science, reel results asia pacific fisheries scientists estimate that 90 percent of the world’s fisheries are overfished or fished at capacity, and asia pacific’s are no exception. fish species, such as tuna, are being heavily consumed but poorly monitored. the scarcity of data identifying which species are being caught and in what quantities has made sustainable fisheries management nearly impossible. the nature conservancy is filling those data gaps through innovative new technology: • in indonesia, the conservancy is developing a groundbreaking image-recognition application called fishface. a winner of the 2016 google impact challenge: australia award, it allows fishermen to identify and track their catches using mobile technology, eliminating common misidentifications and the need for expensive equipment. • in the western and central pacific longline tuna fishery, the conservancy is deploying electronic monitoring (em) systems on boats across four countries and hosting a $150,000 crowdsourced competition to develop a machine-learning solution to automate em data analysis—aiming to bring 100 percent accountability to the fishery while facilitating true “bait to plate”