 annual reports give us the opportunity to report to you, the people who support us and make our work possible, on recent achievements. but the work we do far exceeds the capacity of these pages to tell our story. this past year, the nature conservancy was involved in hundreds of projects in 28 countries and every u.s. state. although we can’t tell you the whole story within this report, we hope the following pages give you a sense of the extraordinary conservation results you have helped achieve and the significant progress we are making in conserving “the diversity of life on earth.” common threads run throughout these projects by way of a commitment to conservation by design, our science- based planning process. we take on each project at a scale large enough to ensure the viability of whole systems, often across political boundaries, whether along the upper mississippi or in the heart of the maya forest, and we craft a variety of effective tactics to accomplish tangible, lasting results. an annual report is also an opportunity to look ahead, to lay out ambitions for the future and to assess what it will take to realize those ambitions. in the coming year, we will be telling you about a far- reaching goal that looks ahead to 2015. this goal commits all of us who form part of the conservancy’s large community to a bold vision: conserving places that represent at least 10 percent of every major terrestrial, marine and freshwater habitat on earth. look for more information from us in 2005 about this goal and our plans for taking action. this will be the first time in our history that we have set ourselves to a long-term, organization-wide goal. in connection with the 2015 goal, we will implement a set of measures that enable us to track progress at the project and overall organizational levels, as described in the introduction on page 4 . just as important, these measures will give us the means to evaluate what works and what doesn’t, and to make quick improvements from what we learn. planning is good, but planning that leads to action is what matters. in british columbia, we have already joined environmental groups, the forest industry, the provincial government and first nations in a remarkable project to conserve 21 million acres of the largest intact temperate rainforest in north america. i had the privilege of visiting this breathtaking landscape last summer and was deeply moved by the vast spaces, the grandeur of the landscape and the richness of wildlife—wolves, bears, salmon and orcas in abundance. i was also inspired by the groundbreaking agreement reached among groups that have long been adversaries, and the hope that will allow first nations communities to maintain their livelihoods and cultures by engaging in compatible, natural resource-based economic activity. on the other side of the world, our 2015 goal is revealing to us that many of the grassland and dryland habitats of australia are at risk. over the past several years, we have sent talented staff members to australia to mentor and collaborate with emerging conservation leaders in that country. in nine short months, we have helped organizations like the trust for nature, australian wildlife conservancy and the bush heritage fund secure 652,000 acres of high-priority landscapes. again, i was fortunate to witness the effectiveness of the work under way in australia and to experience the power of our role as catalyst. everyone i talked with, whether from a nonprofit group, a government agency or the business community, commented on what a powerful and effective ally the nature conservancy has been. the nature conservancy is about partnerships, and none are more valued or more welcome than those we share with all of you. as we reflect on the successes of the year just ended, we also look forward, with enthusiasm and excitement, to the work that lies ahead as together, we strive toward the 2015 goal. thank you for an achievement-rich past year, and thank you for joining us as we turn our energies toward the future.