 four years ago, our nation was poised to take the biggest step in its history to fight climate change. with the rollout of the clean power plan, the federal government would set the first-ever limits on carbon pollution from power plants, the largest source of the pollution in the country. it didn’t take long for trump’s u.s. environmental protection agency (epa) to undo that progress. disgraced administrator scott pruitt tried to suppress public comment on his initial proposal to repeal the clean power plan and scheduled only a single hearing in charleston, west virginia, in the fall of 2017. but american citizens demanded more. under pressure, the epa scheduled additional hearings in three more cities in february and march 2018, where hundreds of nrdc activists and concerned citizens—including a group of some 200 young students from oakland—showed up to support the clean power plan. “we can’t afford to go backwards— the impacts of climate change are hitting home every day in california,” said alex jackson, legal director of nrdc’s california climate project, at the san francisco public meeting. meanwhile, during the open comment period, 212,000 people sent petitions opposing pruitt’s plan. then, in august, acting administrator andrew wheeler announced a proposal for what amounted to a “dirty power plan,” a thinly veiled bailout for the coal industry. if finalized, this rule would increase dangerous air pollution from coal-fired power plants, harming public health and stymieing efforts at the state and local levels to move toward clean energy and combat climate change. the agency again strove to limit feedback on its proposal by scheduling just one public hearing on its plan, in chicago. nrdc staff attorney lissa lynch called it “sim- ply inadequate for meaningful public engagement” on the issue. in the face of this challenge, nrdc worked to alert 35,000 of its chicago- area activists to the opportunity to speak out on their home turf. ultimately, the october 1, 2018, event drew large crowds. “scores of scientists, consumer and environmental advocates, public health experts, elected officials, and concerned citizens demanded that the u.s. epa do better and strengthen our climate and health protections—not weaken them,” noted nrdc’s midwest director for climate and clean energy pol- icy, samantha williams, who joined a bench of colleagues at the event to testify against this proposal. a similarly robust public response came after the trump administration’s move to gut pollution and fuel economy standards for cars and trucks. at hearings the u.s. department of transportation and the epa held in pittsburgh; fresno, california; and dearborn, michigan, in september, physicians, labor representatives, business owners, environmentalists, and parents and grandparents spoke up in opposition to this terrible idea. nrdc’s digital advocacy and fundraising team worked to boost turnout through a well-received action alert that generated more than 100,000 comments and recruited more than 40,000 new activists. the team’s senior director, ben smith, notes that nrdc’s all in activism program has succeeded in “getting people to do more than sign online petitions. they are out taking action in the community.” smith says the strategy for the clean power plan and clean cars hearings—generating interest through online petitions, then bringing people “up the ladder of engagement by turn- ing them out for off-line advocacy activities” by using emails, sms, and social media—is becoming an increasingly critical tool in an era when our federal government is working to suppress pub- lic input on policies that affect us all.