 been in a school cafeteria lately? the ladles of disgusting slop you remember from your youth have been replaced by meals that look increasingly healthy—even appetizing. and late last year, six of the largest u.s. school districts announced a change that will provide healthier meals for students, and it may also help bring better food to all our plates. with nrdc’s guidance, new york, chicago, los angeles, orlando, miami, and dallas—which collectively serve meals to nearly three million students a day—declared they would purchase only antibiotic-free chicken. why is that such a big deal? because we have an antibiotics problem in this country, and it’s contributing to what could become one of the most serious health crises of the 21st century. antibiotics are true miracle drugs, used to treat once-common and widely fatal human illnesses like pneumonia and tuberculosis. but now they’re beginning to fail, largely because we overuse them in both human medicine and animal agriculture. livestock operators use these drugs to increase animal growth rates and help the animals survive the crowded, unsanitary conditions on factory farms. as a result, about 80 percent of all antibiotics sold in the united states are for chickens, pigs, and other livestock—not people. going to school on superbugs this antibiotic abuse is contributing to the rise of superbugs, which can’t be easily treated with common drugs and can turn a routine infection into a potentially life-threatening illness. antibiotic resistance is one of the world’s most pressing health problems, warns the centers for disease control and prevention. by serving only antibiotic-free chicken— or abiding by an “antibiotic stewardship” standard that nrdc helped to develop—the six districts that make up the urban school food alliance have ensured safer and healthier food choices for millions of children across the country, many of whom have limited options at home. “more than two-thirds of the students in these school districts are economically disadvantaged,” says mark izeman, director of nrdc’s new york program, “and school meals often represent more than half of the food they consume each day.” the alliance buys more than $552 million worth of food and supplies annually, so its decision to root out antibiotics has created a huge increase in demand for chicken raised without drugs. and that’s just the beginning. the districts also hope to “move the markets to make food more sustainable and healthy for everyone,” says eric goldstein, the chief executive of school support services in new york city, who chairs the alliance. improving an entire industry even before the alliance’s december announcement, some giant poultry producers had started distancing themselves from the unnecessary use of antibiotics. perdue, for example—the nation’s third-largest chicken producer—reported last year that it is now raising 95 percent of its birds without antibiotics that are important to human medicine, while restaurant chains like chipotle report that they are already serving drug-free meat. nrdc and its allies helped persuade mcdonald’s, the largest fast-food chain in the world, to pledge the elimination of routine antibiotic use in its chicken supply chain. nrdc also waged a public-facing campaign to persuade chicken-giant foster farms to phase out the use of antibiotics. the top chicken producer in the west and the sixth-largest in the united states, foster farms was linked by the cdc to an antibiotic-resistant salmonella outbreak that sickened hundreds of people in 2013 and 2014. in response, nrdc and other groups have pressed the company to disclose details of its antibiotics use. in november 2015, we commissioned billboards that were posted outside the foster farms headquarters, asking if its antibiotics practices were safe. foster farms has since reached out to nrdc, and we are now hopeful that the company will commit to sound antibiotic stewardship. the fda’s ongoing failure to act the u.s. food and drug administration has also been slow to take effective action—a fact repeatedly highlighted by nrdc. last year our scientists uncovered records showing that the fda allowed 30 potentially harmful antibiotics (including 18 rated by its own scientists as “high risk”) to remain on the market as additives in farm-animal feed and water, despite an internal review that raised significant red flags. instead of taking regulatory action to correct the problem, the fda has adopted a voluntary guidance system that asks pharmaceutical companies to eliminate the use of antibiotics for “growth promotion”— but still allows many of the same drugs to be used routinely under other label categories. in california, lawmakers came up with an antibiotics proposal that mimicked the fda’s ineffective guidelines for curbing abuse. at the urging of nrdc and its allies, governor jerry brown vetoed the useless bill, sending legislators back to the drawing board this year. “we need to lift the curtain of secrecy that shrouds the industry’s use of these drugs,” says jonathan kaplan, director of nrdc’s food and agriculture program, “and eliminate unnecessary antibiotic use so that these precious medicines keep working for the people who need them.”