 on average, trophy hunters bring at least one dead giraffe into the united states every single day. addi­tionally, our country has imported more than 21,400 carvings of giraffe bones and 3,000 skin pieces over the past decade. experts warn that these iconic mammals are facing a “silent extinction,” with their populations down by 40 per­ cent over the past 30 years and little attention paid to their disappearance. in april 2017, nrdc, the center for biologi­cal diversity, the humane society of the united states, and humane society international asked the u.s. department of the interior’s fish and wildlife service to list giraffes under the endangered species act (esa). the trump administration failed to respond with either a determination or a date by which it would make such a decision, as required by law—so in december 2018, we sued. “giraffes are headed toward extinction, in part due to our country’s importation of giraffe parts and trophies,” says elly pepper, deputy director of nrdc’s wildlife trade initiative. an esa listing would help restrict the growing trade, as well as potentially increase funding for conserva­tion efforts in africa, where poaching and habitat destruction are also contributing to the giraffe’s decline. the trump administration has routinely bolstered trophy hunting of african species, going so far as to fill its international wildlife conservation council (iwcc) with pro­hunting lobbyists, nra staff members, and celebrity trophy hunters. nrdc’s wildlife trade initiative has been leading opposi­tion to the iwcc since its inception, with the team drafting comments and even nominating an nrdc colleague to serve on the council. last august, together with our partners, we sued the administration to dismantle the group, arguing that the iwcc violates federal law. “the trump administration would rather allow its rich donors to mount giraffe trophies on their walls than protect giraffes,” says pepper. “it’s shameful—though unsurprising— that the interior department has refused to protect them under the endangered species act, and i hope the courts will agree.”