 as our leaders in washington weigh america’s long-term energy future, nrdc’s stop dirty fuels campaign is fighting to slow and ultimately halt the expansion of tar sands, liquid coal, and oil shale while promoting environmentally sustainable transportation alternatives that reduce our dependence on fossil fuels. launching into large-scale production of these high-carbon “dirty fuels” would inflict irreversible damage on our environment. not only would greenhouse gas emissions rise, but heavy capital expenditures for dirty fuels infrastructure would drain precious investment away from clean energy alternatives. combining our research and technical knowledge with campaigning and advocacy at the international, federal, state, and local levels, we are mounting pressure on the obama administration and congress to protect our climate, our environment, and our health by rejecting dirty fuels development. nrdc made important headway in our three-year fight to block transcanada’s keystone xl tar sands pipeline—a sweeping proposal that has come to symbolize a place to draw the line against dirty fuels. the pipeline would carry up to 900,000 barrels of toxic tar sands fuel a day from canada to oil refineries in texas. not only would a spill along the 2,000-mile pipeline route spell disaster for american rivers and other important freshwater resources, but the project would drive further expansion of destructive strip-mining and drilling of tar sands bitumen from under canada’s boreal forest and have far-reaching climate change impacts for the world. to block the proposal, nrdc is using a multi-faceted strategy— including outreach and education directed at the obama administration and congress, research and analysis, communications and media work, grassroots mobilization, and technical participation in the environmental review process—to make the strongest case possible against the pipeline. our report, “tar sands pipelines safety risks,” has brought significant media and public attention to the dangers of the pipeline to u.s. waters, changing the nature of the national debate and helping to garner bipartisan support from the u.s. heartland. our powerful advocacy efforts, including a flood of petitions from our members and online activists urging the state department to complete an additional environmental impact statement, have helped achieve another review and improve the information under consideration during the permitting process for the proposed pipeline. now it is up to president obama to take a close look at the case we have built and decide whether the pipeline is in our national interest. if this reckless project moves forward, we will act to block additional permits for the pipeline at the federal and state level, and we will go to court if necessary to stop the proposal. on a separate front, as the natural gas fracking debate widens across the country, nrdc is sending a strong message to lawmakers: we will not support fracking without the strictest possible safeguards for health, the environment, and local communities. in new york, we launched an all-out campaign this year to challenge a state plan that could result in 1,600 drilling applications annually. we identified places of extraordinary environmental, ecological, or hydrological significance that should be placed off limits to drilling. we went to court to protect the “home rule” rights of communities to establish local comprehensive plans and zoning ordinances. we engaged in a detailed scientific, technical, and legal review of the state’s proposed environmental study on fracking. and at the national level, we advised the environmental protection agency on regulations for fracking with diesel fuel. we also proposed methods for handling toxic fracking waste, called for more scientific research to understand the threat of fracking to drinking water supplies, and pushed for new rules to protect americans from fracking-related air pollution. meanwhile, fighting in and out of court, we built pressure on the obama administration to protect sensitive wildlife habitat in colorado, wyoming, and utah from fracking and other destructive oil and gas drilling—and succeeded in removing some lands from the industry’s hit list. we also reached a key milestone this year in our fight to curb the production of coal-derived liquid fuel. in october 2011, nrdc and our partners reached a settlement agreement with baard energy to end its pursuit of a proposed $6.9 billion coal- to-liquid plant in eastern ohio. while we do not support baard’s plan to use natural gas as the feedstock for the proposed facility, our agreement avoids the use of more than 9 million tons of coal, some 11.2 million tons of carbon emissions, and more than 2,000 tons of other harmful pollutants annually. earlier in the year, tackling the threat of dirty fuels development in our western wildlands, we reached two settlements with the obama administration in lawsuits challenging the implementation of flawed rules for the leasing of oil shale and tar sands on public lands. as a result, the federal government must now establish environmental protection plans that will safeguard against destructive oil shale development. the government must also withdraw plans allowing the commercial leasing of oil shale and tar sands resources on more than 2 million acres of iconic wildlands in the western united states.