 you're working to replace coal plants with renewable energy in the deep red states of kansas and missouri. what's your approach? the short answer is money. if you can show stakeholders that renewables are cheaper than coal, they'll make the transition. the trick is revealing how expensive coal really is. coal managed to look cheap for decades, but only if' you ignored its toll on public health, climate change, and other parts of our environment. over the last few decades, nrdc and other groups have worked to make the price of coal reflect its true cost one tool is the clean air act, which forces coal plants to install equipment aimed at reducing harmful air pollution. gradually tightening those standards has improved public health and helped integrate the hidden costs of coal into its price, as utilities are forced to clean up their emissions. at the same time, the cost of renewables has declined by 90 percent over the last 10 years. a how quickly is the changeover happening in the midwest? kansas went from 0 percent wind power to 40 percent in 15 years, and all of that renewable energy displaced coal-fired power plants. lf we do our job well, the state could get to 70 percent wind power in the next decade and zero carbon emissions by 2035. constructing new transmission lines will also pave the way for wind power produced in kansas to cross the border. a how else can the region grow its clean energy economy? as the g.:rid gets cleaner, we'll want to transition our vehicles and buildings away from fossil fuels too. we'll have electric cars, electric hvac, and electric hot water systems. and we'll have to find ways to reduce the stress on the grid so it can handle these new demands, beyond just switching over from coal to renewables. a so is that where efficiency comes in? yes. in the midwest, we're focused on greening the building sector. if we can improve the building envelope (all of the components that separate the interior and exterior and contribute to climate control), much of the electricity that used to go to air conditioning can instead power electric cars. we'l!"8 working with policymakers to help push these efficiency policies forward. kansas city now requires large buildings to disclose energy and water usage. collecting that data is the first step toward reform. st. louis recently became the first .midwest city to take the next step, requiring buildings to become more efficient. we're not talking about new building it's a relatively lighter lift to tighten standards on new construction. instead, these standards will apply to existing buildings. .a how did your experience with sustainability initiatives in new york help guide your work with cities in the country's heartland? from 2004 to '13, nrdc partnered on an energy policy task force in new york, which helped us to develop a sustainability template that could be tailored to other cities. then, through the city energy project in 2012 and the american cities climate challenge in 2018, nrdc secured funding to partner with mayors of more than 25 cities-including in the midwest-and supply them with the expertise and attention required to do that tailoring. a how did it feel to recently receive the american council for an energy-efficient economy's lifetime achievement award? the best part was that aceee. recognized my work mentoring young advocates. people can't do this work alone. that's why i've always been focused on team building, both inside of nrdc and with external partners. it was very touching to learn that people i mentored decades ago recommended that i be recognized for this honor.