 coffee farmers conserve soil and water. the upper tana-nairobi water fund helps secure water in and around nairobi, which gets 95 percent of its water from the tana river. tnc and water fund partners are working with more than 20,000 farming households—one in four of which is headed by women—throughout the watershed to reduce erosion and water use. as part of this effort, more than 8,000 farmers received rainforest alliance certification for their coffee crops and therefore earned higher prices per pound. to receive this internationally recognized designation, farmers must meet rigorous environmental standards. seeking sustainable wood fuels wood fuel is one of africa’s most significant environmental and health threats: respiratory infections, mainly from smoke inhalation, are a leading cause of death, and more than half of africa’s forest degradation is a result of fuel demand. in response, tnc launched the sustainable wood fuels program. we are partnering with the kenya forestry research institute to scientifically test efficient charcoal kilns and sustainable sources like native bamboo. if we identify viable alternatives that could be adopted by kenyan families, the next phase will be working with partners across the continent to take this to scale. conservation carbon credits tnc is working to secure resource ownership and improve revenue flow for local communities to ensure that tarangire’s woodland ecosystem is protected for people and wildlife. a new 30-year contract between partner carbon tanzania and makame wildlife management area (wma) will guide the distribution of carbon sequestration revenues, which depend on successful habitat protection and sales of the resulting carbon credits. these revenues are projected to start in 2019 and to eventually cover all the wma’s expenses. greater cape town water fund launched cape town, south africa, became the poster child for water security last year when predictions were being made that “day zero”—when freshwater supplies would be depleted—was on the near horizon. rainfall and water conservation postponed those predictions, but a new water fund, established with tnc’s support, seeks a longer-term solution. as a first step, a team of local women was hired to remove thirsty, non-native trees such as acacias that are on a critical aquifer water supply area. securing a vast inland desert oasis tnc launched a new project in partnership with the national geographic okavango wilderness project, and the permanent okavango river basin water commission. our goal is to protect the okavango delta’s source waters, which are an important resource for nearly 1 million people and feed a unique inland habitat that is home to the world’s largest elephant population. though the okavango basin remains largely intact, looming infrastructure threats call for urgent action. tnc is bringing our expertise in watershed planning and conservation finance to the effort. island nation protects 81,000 square miles. a landmark debt-for-conservation swap in 2016 brokered by tnc and partners is now yielding real results on the ground and in the water. the republic of seychelles has officially designated the first 15 percent of its exclusive economic zone—the marine area that the nation controls— in two new marine protection areas, an area larger than the island of great britain. their commitment is to protect 30 percent by 2020 to ensure sustainable use of resources, buff er the islands from the effects of climate change and serve as a model for other island nations around the globe. a new oceans authority will be established to ensure strong protection of these new areas.