 just a few months into my new role as the chair of the board of trustees, i'm filled with great pride in being able to lead this incredibly effective organization and work alongside all of you, our greatest and most spirited nrdc supporters and members, to further our work to protect this world. this pride in nrdc isn't new to me, of course, after having been with the board for the past five years and a longtime supporter for more than 20 years. but from this standpoint, i know that what i bring-the decades of advocacy and experience in leading campaigns and in philanthropy-can meld with this powerful collective that we have and we can harness it together for the change that both the country and the world need, immediately and for the future. nrdc is well positioned to advance our ambitious goals, particularly now that we have a new presidential administration that shares our commitment to strong climate action. after largely playing defense over the past four years, we're ready to shift and emerge stronger than ever, with clear-eyed focus on what needs to be done. but i have not a shred of doubt that we-this organization and all of you, our incredible supporters-are just the powerhouse to do it. we are aiming high, because we won't know how much we can achieve without trying. you can be sure that we will seize all the new opportunities presented by the pro environment and pro-climate presidential administration, as well as congress. we have a lot to do to make big, bold strides and to make history-all the while undoing the harms inflicted by the last presidential administration. the issues we are facing demand that we act boldly and courageously. we will immediately set out to advance policy solutions at the federal level that will fa.st•track the country to a 100 percent clean energy economy. at the same time, we also must restore and renew protections for lands, water, and air, and safeguard them now and into the future. and we must do this we haven't got a moment to lose. work swiftly in this limited window of time, in order to avoid the most severe impacts of the climate crisis. it is an understatement to say it has been a difficult year, between dealing with the fallout of covid-19; the horrifying climate consequences, including intense wildfires that turned the bay area's skies orange and the unprecedentedly long hurricane season; and the disproportionate overlapping impacts of covid-19 and climate change on communities of color. in this historically important moment, we will also work with congress to address these intersecting challenges and pave the way for a better and more sustainable future for all-to urge lawmakers to rebuild the country in a way that advances equity and climate solutions, invests in communities, and prioritizes the health of people and the environment. this will be a tough climb, but we're ready. l'm ready because of the nrdc community that will make the climb easier. in particular, i greatly appreciate the leadership of mitch bernard, whose keen insights and partnership l'm reliant upon. l'm grateful to alan horn, the former chair of the board of trustees, for the inspirational work he's done over the past two years in this position, which has really set the bar for me. i'm also thankful to gina mccarthy, who is now leading domestic climate efforts for the biden administration, for the fire, gumption, and immense wisdom and perspective she brought to nrdc for the past year. i know that we will still be working toward shared climate goals, and we will certainly push the administration to act boldly. and i am ready because of you all: the broader- and growing-nrdc continuity. i'm proud and excited for the work we'll do together to help seek a sustainable future. i'm indebted to all of you for standing with us through thick and thin, particularly these last four, bumpy years. now, we haven't got a moment to lose. let's get to work. sincerely, kathleen welch