 even in a year of tremendous struggle, state and local leaders across the nation heeded the calls of community members who demanded climate action now and delivered long-promised solutions. quitting fossil fuels new york passed new laws banning fracking and protecting communities from dangerous cracking wastes carted into the state. and following three years of grassroots advocacy from across new york and new jersey-which included thousands of nrdc members speaking out against the project-the two states rejected plans for the fracked-gas williams pipeline. virginia passed bipartisan legislation to prevent oil and gas drilling off it, coast, which had threatened the $2.7 billion generated annually by industries that rely on clean beaches and a healthy ocean. nroc worked with coalition partners and state legislators to help shape the bill. peoria, illinois, made strides toward closing its dirty coal plant- scheduled to shutter by the end of 2022-following a landmark settlement agreement between the vistra corp. subsidiary that owns and operates the plant and the environmental and public health groups, including nrdc, that sued the plant's owners in 2013. as part of the agreement, $8.6 million wiu be invested in local job training. bus electrification, solar, energy efficiency, and lung health projects. accelerating cleaner transportation california passed a policy to spur construction of electric vehicle charging stations and finalized its advanced clean trucks rule-a global first that requires truck makers to sell an increasing number of clean, zero--emission trucks rather than polluting diesel trucks. thousands of nrdc members submitted public comments in favor of the rule, joining frontline communities, organized labor, public health advocates, and the clean technology industry to support its adoption. nevada committed to pursuing california's advanced clean cars program to help cut dangerous carbon pollution from transportation and ensure automakers are introducing more models of new, advanced electric vehicles to the state. hamilton county, ohio, passed a critical ballot measure to improve and increase funding for greater cincinnati's public transportation system, fixing roads, reducing traffic, and tackling the climate crisis. cincinnati participates in the bloomberg philanthropies american cities climate challenge, through which organizations like nrdc support local partners and officials in tackling climate projects in the transportation and building sectors. powering greener buildings honolulu, a climate challenge participant, passed a policy to reduce energy use (and energy bills.) in new buildings by requiring that they be energy efficient and wired to be ready for rooftop solar and electric vehicle charging. san joh, calif0rnia, with help from the climate challenge, passed a ground breaking policy requiring all new buildings to use clean power instead of dirty fossil fuels. the step made it the nation's largest city to make new construction all-electric. st. louis, also part of the climate challenge, became the third city in the united states to adopt building energy performance standards (beps) requiring building owners to cut the city's biggest source of greenhouse gas emissions.