 nrdc is integrating its expertise in pollution prevention, water efficiency, and climate change to sustain america’s precious water resources. in addition to continued defense of the clean water act and prosecution of polluters, we will add new focus on solutions that are practical and that can have transformative impacts, especially the use of green infrastructure. not only does green infrastructure—such as pocket parks and green areas to channel runoff— dramatically reduce stormwater pollution and create new water sources in arid landscapes, but it has also been shown to generate more long-term job opportunities for local workers. decades of unsustainable development have wrapped our cities and towns in a concrete cocoon of roads, parking lots, and sidewalks. when rain falls on these impermeable surfaces, it has nowhere to go but downhill, picking up everything in its path—from motor oil and road salt to litter and pesticides. meanwhile, steady rains can overwhelm facilities designed to treat a mixture of stormwater and sewage, pouring toxic waste into rivers, lakes, or coastal waters. as a result, urban runoff is a leading cause of water pollution in the united states. to stem this threat, nrdc is working closely with cities and states from coast to coast to expand their use of green infrastructure. these low-impact, inexpensive solutions—including pocket parks, green roofs, cisterns, permeable pavement, and other techniques—retain and filter rainwater where it falls, rather than dumping it into waterways or sewage treatment systems. every five years, states, counties, and large cities are required to update a clean water act permit for operating their municipal storm-sewer systems. as these runoff control plans are reissued, nrdc is working to establish enforceable green infrastructure requirements in every stormwater permit for development and redevelopment (including road retrofit and renovation projects) in america’s 10 largest urban areas. on the west coast, we scored two major victories in 2010 when we persuaded regional water boards in the san francisco bay area and in several counties in southern california—two of the nation’s most populated regions—to adopt strict plans for controlling urban runoff. across the country in west virginia, we worked with the environmental protection agency to craft a similar plan for the entire state and defended it in court. meanwhile, we are advancing green infrastructure as a cost-effective solution to sewer overflow problems in cities such as philadelphia, which has proposed a groundbreaking 20-year plan for more than $1 billion in green infrastructure investments. in new york city, we are promoting a similar approach to address the city’s 27-billion- gallon-per-year sewage overflow problem. at the federal level, we are building support in congress for a bill that would make green infrastructure and low-impact development techniques a national priority. if adopted, the legislation will establish institutional research centers for green infrastructure, as well as require the environmental protection agency to incorporate green infrastructure principles more broadly into its permitting and other programs. most important, the bill will provide communities with the financial and technical resources they need to implement green infrastructure projects on the ground. we are also advancing separate legislation that would authorize billions of dollars worth of critical assistance for various water-quality improvement projects, including the use of green infrastructure.