 reducing pollution—and energy bills—through energy efficiency nrdc worked with other energy-efficiency advocates, the u.s. department of energy (doe), the pay-tv industry, and equipment manufacturers to slash national electricity use of new set-top boxes by $1 billion annually. once in full effect, the agreement will save three power plants’ worth of electricity and prevent the emission of 5 million tons of carbon pollution each year. under the voluntary agreement, leading cable, satellite, and telephone companies commit to buying more efficient set-top boxes and, for the first time, make the energy use of new boxes publicly available. the agreement came after a yearlong negotiation spurred by nrdc’s groundbreaking report that found set-top boxes consume around $3 billion worth of electricity annually, much of that when the box is turned off. and due in large part to nrdc advocacy, the doe also published overdue efficiency standards for motors, commercial refrigeration, walk-in freezers, and metal halide lamps that will save more than $3.8 billion annually—enough electricity to power almost 4 million american homes. triclosan under pressure from an nrdc lawsuit, the u.s. food and drug administration (fda) proposed a federal rule that, if finalized, would remove the potentially hazardous chemical triclosan from body washes and hand soaps. the chemical is a suspected endrocrine disruptor and has been linked to reproductive and developmental harm in laboratory studies. the fda first proposed removing triclosan from certain consumer products in 1978. but the agency took no final action, and in the intervening years, triclosan use has grown to such an extent that bio-monitoring found residues of triclosan in 75 percent of americans over the age of six. the chemical is absorbed through contact with the skin, and tests have found it in human blood, urine, and even breast milk. in 2010 nrdc sued the fda to force the agency to issue a final rule. as part of that settlement, the fda has issued its proposed rule and is committed to taking final action by 2016. in a related matter, nrdc filed a new lawsuit against fda seeking to obtain records the agency has withheld about possible health risks of triclosan added to toothpaste. nanosilver the ninth circuit court of appeals ruled in nrdc’s favor that the environmental protection agency (epa) had improperly approved the use of nanosilver, a toxic antimicrobial that can wash out of clothing and harm aquatic systems, by ignoring its own finding of health risks from exposure to the chemical through the skin or through ingestion by toddlers. as the court stated in its decision, the epa had improperly approved the use of nanosilver by a u.s. textile manufacturer, when the epa’s own data showed that nanosilver was precisely at levels that pose a potential risk. the lawsuit was closely watched as a test case for the growing use of nanotechnology in consumer products such as fabrics and food storage containers—despite its potentially dangerous health effects. this case, and the court’s decision, demonstrated that the epa is accountable for following its own safety standards. bisphenol-a (bpa) more than 90 percent of the general population has harmful levels of bisphenol-a (bpa) in their bodies. bpa is found in hard plastics, the lining of food and beverage cans, sales receipts, and dental sealants and has been shown to mimic the female hormone estrogen. in an explosion of studies since 2008, bpa exposure in test animals early in life has been associated with cancer, reproductive abnormalities, and altered brain development. armed with the science, parents and advocates called for bpa bans but california’s environmental protection agency failed to act. so nrdc filed a petition requesting bpa be added to a list of chemicals whose presence in products can trigger warning labels if exposures exceed regulatory levels. with persistent pressure from nrdc, in january 2013, california’s epa announced it would add bpa to the list. nrdc will continue to push for safety warnings on products that contain bpa.