 yellowstone national park might be one of the few places left on earth where one can experience exquisite quietude—a sweeping silence peppered only with the symphony of nature: the acoustic brush of wind, the sound of birdsong in the trees. but by the late 1990s, yellowstone had lost control over snowmobile usage with an average of 795 of the vehicles entering the park each day. along with their prevalence and noise came stress to wildlife, pollution, and disruption in what should be one of our country’s most protected spaces. for sixteen years, nrdc has led the charge to protect yellowstone with regulations that would better govern snowmobiles and snowcoaches (multi- passenger vehicles that run on large skis or treads). we submitted five environmental impact statements and seven documents, headed public meetings ,and generated a flood of comments from nrdc members. (over this period, the national park service [nps] received 1.1 million public comments.) in 2008, when the bush administration planned to allow 500 snowmobiles per day into yellowstone and grand teton national park, nrdc and our allies prevailed in federal district court when a judge ruled that to do so showed a failure to reconcile the park’s environmental mission with the increase in air pollution, the disturbance to wildlife, and the impact on visitors that the snowmobiles would bring. even then, chris mehl, a spokesman for the wilderness society of bozeman, was arguing that “there have been four studies and $10 million spent, and every study shows the best way to get people in the park and protect it is through snowcoach access, not snowmobiles.” the recommendations of that sound science are finally about to come to fruition. yellowstone’s new final rule will make it mandatory in the winter of 2015- 16 for snowmobiles and snowcoaches to meet strict best available technology standards for emissions and noise. the number of snowmobile trips will be limited to an average of 50 per day, at a maximum speed of 35 miles per hour; snowcoaches are limited to 25 miles per hour. moreover, there will be no growth in the daily number of non-commercially guided snowmobile groups—which nps has learned over the past several winters reduces accidents, law enforcement incidents, and disruption to wildlife. all this means that overall emissions and noise at yellowstone will be significantly reduced. carbon monoxide will be slashed by 70 percent, and hydrocarbons will be reduced by 75 percent. by investing in new and cleaner-running vehicles for fleets, snowmobile operators will be able to advertise and market their tours to visitors as cleaner, quieter ways of experiencing the stillness of a yellowstone winter.