 nature-based solutions and citizen engagement define our expanding pursuit of urban conservation. north american cities the nature conservancy established an initial network of 13 u.s. cities to advance the role that nature plays in ensuring urban communities have access to the clean water, healthy trees and resilient coasts needed to thrive. the cities are working together to identify common urban partners, as well strategies that best tap conservancy skills and can be replicated elsewhere. in miami, for example, conservancy staff helped launch coastal defense, a geographically tailored decision-making tool that examines how coral reefs and mangroves help protect florida’s urban coastal communities. d.c. storm water solutions the potomac and anacostia rivers, which flow through washington, d.c., are routinely polluted with sewage and storm water runoff containing oils, pesticides, nutrients and sediments. under washington’s current storm water regulations, all new major development projects must meet storm water retention standards that can be fulfilled, in part, by using off-site storm water retention credits. the nature conservancy’s maryland/d.c. chapter and the impact investment unit naturevest (see “impact investing,” page 15) are working to cultivate and solidify investment resources and to support washington’s reduction of urban pollution through green infrastructure solutions that restore the city’s natural hydrology, allowing rainwater to be absorbed by the soil instead of becoming a pollutant. hong kong youth engagement with a goal of inspiring the next generation of conservation leaders, the nature conservancy in hong kong launched an urban youth engagement program, created with education collaborator seeds training. more than 100 students from more than three dozen secondary schools across the city participated in the inaugural nature works hong kong program. students work with volunteer advisors from the corporate and nonprofit worlds to create realistic plans to resolve environmental challenges in their communities. urban forests and air quality recognizing the need to understand the science of urban conservation, the nature conservancy’s new cities program is leading research on the role of nature in urban centers. first up is an analysis of the value of urban trees in improving air quality and mitigating heat islands. the initial phase of the study will be conducted in the united states, where urban air pollution is a serious health threat. research results could help guide urban planning around the world.