 with 1,900-plus bird species—more than any other country in the world—colombia is a bird-watcher’s paradise and one of the most biodiverse countries on earth. recently, colombia has emerged from years of turmoil to become a vibrant, democratic country, charting a path toward greater peace and prosperity for its people. colombia’s rich natural resources are helping to drive its growing economy. here, the demand to increase production serves as a microcosm of pressures faced all over latin america. conventionally grazed pastures consume a third of colombia’s territory and have contributed to severe soil degradation and deforestation. transforming this destructive cycle into sustainable livestock production is essential to preserving colombia’s magnificent biodiversity. the solution lies in changing the dynamic from farming versus habitat to an alliance of farming and habitat. the nature conservancy and partners are promoting sustainable ranching at the largest scale ever done in colombia. more than 2,600 ranchers—mainly owners of small-size plots in areas of high biodiversity and low income levels—are adopting sustainable practices that protect critical habitats while increasing production, prof- its and climate resilience. these well-tested practices, known as silvopastoral systems, incorporate trees, forage banks and living fences made up of native species, which provide shelter and food for wildlife and in many cases help connect forest patches with protected areas serving as wildlife corridors. these arrangements provide cattle with vertical layers of grazing, leading to twice the milk and meat production per acre while reducing the amount of land needed to raise them. results have been impressive. colombian ranchers have already transformed 105,000 acres to environmentally friendly practices and protected 37,000 acres through conservation agreements with landowners. nearly a million native trees have been planted. meanwhile, participating ranchers report a reduction in the need for fertilizers and pesticides, more productive soils, increased loads (animal per hectare), and an average 10 percent increase in their milk and/or meat production. monitoring studies have confirmed increased biodiversity, improved carbon stocks and reduced contamination of water sources. training and outreach have resulted in widespread understanding of the value of nature in healthy soils and resilience to extreme weather events. to date, ranchers have lowered greenhouse gas by more than 2 million tons.