 experts have warned that we're in the midst of a serious biodiversity crisis. what does this mean for our bears, wolves, and coyotes? historically, large carnivores across the world have been greatly persecuted, and many have been pushed to the brink of extinction. that's a serious problem, especially because large carnivore species often play an outsize role in maintaining balanced ecosystems. we should consider them our allies in combating the biodiversity crisis. despite recovery efforts in the united states, many of these unique animals still occupy just a fraction of their former range, which has major impacts on the landscape. are humans also at risk if we lose these species? the lives of humans and large carnivores are not inherently at odds. 'to the contrary, they are intertwined. i was reminded of this last fall when i visited the spring camp of the dukha an ethnic minority group whose livelihood in mongolia's northern taiga is tied to reindeer herding and subsistence hunting. the dukha routinely move their herds and use fencing and dogs to protect the reindeer from wolves, but they believe that wolves also add invaluable benefits to their lives, for example by controlling the spread of disease. they see predation as one aspect of a give-and-take relationship with their environment. they don't frame that relationship in terms of conflict. is human-wildlife strife a significant factor, in the slow pace of the comeback for carnivores in the west? yes. animals like grizzly bears and wolves are still being killed in alarming numbers today because of real or perceived conflicts with humans. in places like the northern rockies, these events often take the form of carnivores killing livestock, and government agencies or individual landowners killing carnivores in response. this creates a toxic cycle of killing that results in losses to ranchers and wildlife enthusiasts alike. nrdc is helping to break that cycle by getting ahead of the conflicts and encouraging proactive strategies and policies that allow humans, livestock, and native carnivores to share the landscape more harmoniously. what kinds of nonlethal tools do we have to prevent these conflicts? instead of waiting for losses to occur, we are equipping ranchers with specialized fencing that can protect their vulnerable livestock from predation. take turbo fladry, which is composed of nylon flags sewn onto electrified polywire and capitalizes on wolves' fear of the unfamiliar. 'the flags scare wolves to the point where they won't cross over or under the wire. we use this tool to strategically enclose livestock pastures during certain seasons and so far have had complete success in preventing livestock losses inside an enclosure. you've said before - wildlife brings people together. what do you mean by that? in these divisive times, we have seen that we can successfully build partnerships with unlikely allies to make positive changes for both people and wildlife, here and now. it takes time, but our work is changing the status quo. by collaborating with federal and state agencies, tribal nations, communities, and individuals, we are moving toward a nonlethal-first approach to living with wildlife. we are showing people that killing is not the only option for responding to conflicts. many americans would probably say they want their grandkids to be able to see a grizzly bear or a puma in the wild someday. what will carnivores most need from us to ensure their survival over the next 50 years? grizzly bears and other species need large, connected landscapes to thrive. it won't work to draw lines around small, isolated pockets of wilderness and say, this is where grizzly bears get to live."' it can be hard to think big picture and long term about wildlife conservation, but i see more and more emphasis on the importance of large landscape connectivity. in montana, for example, our conflict prevention work is helping to create more space for large carnivores, allowing them to move safely between areas of core habitat. we are laying the groundwork to help reconnect populations and increase their resiliency.