 most americans could probably guess from a quick tour of their own closets that china is the world’s leading producer of textiles. in fact, half of the clothing that americans buy is made in china. but what most people don’t know is that textile manufacturing is one of the most polluting industries in the world and one of the largest industrial sources of water pollution. the chinese textile industry alone creates about 3 billion tons of soot each year, and a single mill can use about 200 tons of water for each ton of fabric it dyes. rivers literally run red—and every other shade of the rainbow— with toxic waste from the dyeing process. until recently, only niche apparel brands that had built their name on sustainability paid close enough attention to environmental performance within their supply chains. but thanks to nrdc’s clean by design initiative, spearheaded by linda greer, nrdc’s health program director, multinational retail giants including walmart and h&m are now pledging to begin work with their chinese textile suppliers to dramatically reduce their water, energy, and chemical use. as part of nrdc’s longstanding campaign to reduce the environmental and health impacts of runaway pollution and energy use in china, nrdc scientists teamed up with our provincial partners to conduct a study of the country’s most polluting industries. we discovered that china’s textile sector is one of the two leading water polluters. after conducting fact-finding missions to more than a dozen chinese fabric mills and dye houses, we identified opportunities for low-cost, money-saving improvements that will dramatically reduce pollution and improve efficiency, including better insulation, improved steam management, and hot water recycling. meanwhile, we teamed up with the council of fashion designers of america and assembled an advisory council of world-class designers and industry leaders. using hands-on studies of five mills, we created a 10 best practices guide to promote improvements in textile factory performance that will reduce the environmental footprint of the industry’s global supply chain without sacrificing the bottom line. the jiangsu redbud textile company, a chinese-owned mill that supplies walmart and other leading retailers, put our best practices to the test—and the results were profound. after adopting just three of the ten best practices, redbud began saving 740 tons of water per day and 9.4 tons of coal per day. the one-time cost of $72,000 for implementing the improvements was recouped in cost savings in just 32 days—and the mill is now saving nearly $840,000 annually. according to nrdc estimates, if just 100 small and medium-size textile mills implemented our 10 best practices, china would save more than 16 million metric tons of water annually, enough to provide 12.4 million people drinking water for a year. moreover, it would eliminate 1 million metric tons of carbon pollution annually—the equivalent of taking 172,000 cars off the road for a year. walmart has committed to begin work with chinese textile manufacturers to implement our best practices at select mills and to track water and energy savings. we have reached a similar agreement with h&m, which operates more than 2,000 stores worldwide. moving forward, we will continue to promote our best practices guide with multinational retailers, brands, and designers and to work with officials and experts in china to ensure the widespread adoption of clean by design solutions in the textile industry.