 brenda shapiro past chair, board of trustees, illinois chapter; chair, upper mississippi river advisory board my lasting impression... a remnant of minnesota prairie, with milkweed seeds blowing in the wind. what i want to contribute... to help carry the message that, through science, we can achieve a balance between the good life and a healthy planet. when brenda shapiro gazes upon the illinois river flood plain, she sees ponds blooming with american lotus, reminiscent of a pre-raphaelite painting. she sees the future with enough backwater habitats restored to foster a healthy river ecosystem. and, facing south, she sees south america. shapiro’s vision was not always so expansive. when she was a child in oklahoma, a visit to the country was a drive in the family car with the windows rolled down to escape the summer heat. then her family moved, briefly, to minnesota, and she encountered nature untamed when a teacher showed her class a remnant prairie. shapiro was only six years old, but she never forgot the experience. a passion for restoration in the 1970s, shapiro and her husband, chicago residents, bought a summer house in michigan with a three-acre field. there, shapiro decided to make a prairie—a project that led to her fascination with prairie restoration in illinois. in 1991, shapiro joined the illinois chapter board of trustees. the conservancy’s mission; apolitical, science-based approach; emphasis on human needs and global vision resonated with her personal conservation goals. with conservancy colleagues to guide her, shapiro discovered the illinois beyond chicago, full of places many city dwellers only see from the air: woodlands and wetlands, savanna and cypress/tupelo swamps. she became an advocate for such places as spunky bottoms, a wetland that, for 80 years, was an agricultural field, isolated from the illinois river by levees. today at spunky bottoms, the conservancy is pioneering innovative techniques to restore and protect the illinois river, one of three large-floodplain rivers remaining in the united states where a realistic opportunity exists to recover ecological integrity. since 1998, the conservancy has allowed the wetland to regenerate, gradually reclaiming its place in the illinois floodplain. in partnership with the state of illinois—the first such partnership under the state’s open land trust program—the illinois chapter recently protected the last critical link needed to reconnect spunky bottoms with the illinois river. the results of this restoration will influence similar projects throughout the upper mississippi river, including the 7,000-acre emiquon project, where 40 of the country’s top scientists are helping to guide the conser-vancy’s restoration. historical records suggest emiquon was once the most productive wetland in the midwest, home to more than 500 generations of native americans over the past 10,000 years, and supporting the nation’s largest inland fishery until the early twentieth century. drained for agriculture by 1920 and coveted since then by conservationists, emiquon was purchased by the conservancy in 2000, the largest private land purchase for conservation in illinois history. from the prairie to the pantanal the conservancy’s work supports shapiro’s desire to protect threatened places around the world. her tireless pursuit of local funds to support projects in the americas has helped to make the illinois chapter a leader in promoting global thinking. shapiro has led trips to peru and mexico, introducing potential supporters to the conservancy’s work with global partners. in 2002 shapiro traveled to brazil to experience the pantanal, the world’s largest freshwater wetland. there, the conservancy worked with ecotropica to protect 148,000 acres of critical land on the borders of pantanal national park. during that trip, shapiro saw the past come together with the present as she realized that the illinois river floodplain once looked like this pristine south american wetland. she hopes that, by studying the pantanal, the conservancy will learn how a healthy floodplain functions, and, in turn, share information about the illinois river to help brazilians avoid mistakes made in the united states. from the seeds of a single milkweed pod, to prairie restoration, to the largest freshwater wetland in the world, shapiro has found her conservation journey lifechanging and joyful. she has come to view the earth as one backyard, shared by people everywhere. “to see illinois in isolation is to look through the narrow end of a telescope,” she says. “by making the connection between such places as emiquon and the pantanal, the nature conservancy recognizes that conservation is, paradoxically, always local and necessarily global.”