 through various programs, nrdc promotes renewable energy sources, conservation, energy efficiency, and clean fuels as solutions that will reduce the impacts of climate change. to minimize our own impact, nrdc measures and seeks to reduce energy use in our offices. our approach is to understand our energy use, work to reduce it, and then monitor to ensure we have achieved reductions. we conduct energy audits to identify areas of opportunity (audits of new york and santa monica offices complete in fy2012). we monitor and manage energy use using systems such as lutron, a lighting management system, in the washington d.c., office; and noveda, a sustainability management software that monitors real-time electricity and water consumption, which was implemented in new york, washington, chicago, and santa monica in fy2013. we reduce energy use through a number of initiatives including using energystar appliances, on-site solar energy nrdc sustainability as an ethical imperative 17 in santa monica, smart plugs in san francisco, efficient data centers in washington and new york, environmental controls and hvac in washington, and efficient lighting in all offices. our approach to renewables: nrdc recognizes that more than half of the electricity we use is derived from coal and nuclear. we are working to change this in three ways: 1) by working to reduce the energy we consume through energy efficiency; 2) by advocating that u.s. utilities transition to a cleaner resource portfolio, including energy efficiency and renewable energy, to reduce the carbon footprint of all electricity consumers, including nrdc; 3) by exploring options for direct purchases of renewable electricity for all our offices. in the offices we own, we have invested in on-site solar energy systems. the roof of our new york office currently is equipped with a 5.5 kw photovoltaic solar system, and our l.a. office has a 7.5 kw system. en3 direct energy consumption by primary energy source. nrdc owns no vehicles, so heating fuel is our only direct energy consumption. our new york office used #2 heating oil in fy2012 (but will switch to biofuel in fy2014). our santa monica, san francisco, chicago, and montana offices use natural gas. our washington d.c., office uses electricity for heat, so it is not included in the scope 1 energy use detailed below, and our beijing office is served by district heating, which is indirect consumption of energy (scope 2). nrdc direct energy consumption by primary energy source fy2012, gigajoules, % of total oil (gigajoules) 962 38% gas (gigajoules) 1,570 62% en4 indirect energy consumption by primary source. primary sources of indirect energy were estimated using disclosures from the utilities serving each of our offices. we purchase offsets for all emissions from our electricity use, along with our other efforts outlined in the management approach to energy. in addition to the primary fuel sources in the chart below for nrdc’s electricity consumption, we used an estimated 202 gj of coal to supply hot water for heating in our beijing office. en5 energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. in our n.y. headquarters, energy reduction measures included data center initiatives such as virtualization, hot/cold aisle containment, and new, more efficient servers, as well as installation of a new cooling unit, using approximately 36,000 kwh/year for cooling, or roughly half the energy usage of the former unit. printing reductions and desktop to laptop conversions further reduced energy use. window replacements completed at the end of fy2011 (4/2011) led to a 5% reduction in heating requirements in fy2012. we conducted several energy audits in our n.y. and l.a. offices to determine how we can increase the energy efficiency of our offices. several of the recommendations from these audits were implemented in fy2012, and others were implemented in fy2013. en6 initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. nrdc has placed a strong focus on decreasing total u.s. energy use, which has been going down since 2007. we are engaged in increasing energy efficiency in appliances, equipment, and lighting. additionally we have been pushing policy solutions to be implemented at all levels of government to support clean energy and economic growth. nrdc has been instrumental in driving renewable energy investment to scale by supporting financial incentives such as tax changes to level the playing field, and advancing clean energy banks to help inform commercial investors. advances in energy efficiency have incentivized utility companies and appliance manufacturers while saving consumers billions of dollars annually. a portion of our work has focused on helping the u.s. green building council and leed set frameworks for incorporating efficiency into buildings, which account for 30% of the nation’s ghg emissions. in addition, the center for market innovation’s (cmi – a project of nrdc) high performance tenant demonstration project portfolio is composed of several high-impact tenants, including li & fung usa, who are forecast to save 31% of energy use compared with code-compliant design ($1.8 million over the 15-year lease term) in their new green office fit-out in the empire state building. cmi works to expand the impact of nrdc by engaging with businesses to create market conditions encouraging redirection of capital flows toward sustainable uses, such as energy efficiency. recent initiatives include a public- private partnership to develop the new york city energy efficiency corporation (nyceec), a nonprofit tasked with catalyzing the development of a fully scaled, market-driven energy efficiency retrofit industry in new york city; and our solar schools project, aiming to use renewable energy to power 130,000 k-12 schools while increasing community awareness. strategic partnerships such as nrdc’s with major sporting organizations are instrumental in promoting our agenda to businesses and fans who attend national sporting events. nrdc has also begun expanding its clean energy efforts internationally, working in china to scale up energy efficiency and reduce reliance on coal and in india to promote energy efficient appliances and the use of solar energy. en7 initiatives to reduce non-energy indirect energy consumption (from purchasing materials and components or services such as travel, commuting, and subcontracted production) and reductions achieved. we are addressing our largest source of emissions head- on by reviewing our travel policy for fy2014 to reduce emissions. we have installed bike racks and showers to encourage low-carbon commuting by our staff. our procurement policies reduce embodied energy use and related carbon emissions by giving preference to products made using recycled materials.