 the u.s. is losing 10 billion tons of fertile soil every year through erosion and degradation. and yet, we will need a substantial increase in agricultural production if we are to feed the planet’s growing population. improving soil health on u.s. agricultural land holds the potential for achieving meaningful conservation and economic benefits, as well as mitigating the growing threat of climate change. healthy soil is the cornerstone of life on earth, facilitating ecosystem biodiversity, ample food production, effective water filtration and storage, and carbon sequestration. lee kinnard runs a family farm on wisconsin’s door peninsula that won a u.s. dairy sustainability award: “our parents’ goal was to build a business that would last for generations, and it has. dad was a conservationist and taught us well. he was using sustainable methods like no-till when very few others were. he’d say, ‘this is not our land, and these are not our resources. it’s simply our responsibility to be the next generation of caretakers.’ “we are fortunate to live in an area with very rich soil, perfectly suited for farming, but i worry that fewer people here want to remain in farming. the alternative is to convert the farmland to housing development. so i began buying area farms as they came on the market, both to expand my business and to keep this land in production. i was surprised by the bitter opposition i faced, some from those claiming to be ‘environmentalists.’ “so i was leery when i first met steve richter of the nature conservancy. but he came along at just the right time and turned out to be the voice of sanity. he brought science to the discussion, and i believe science always wins. the conservancy’s been part of the process of bringing in speakers, establishing demonstration projects and encouraging farmers to talk to other farmers. soil health is the focus. a generational change is happening, and those remaining do make the tie between doing the right thing and profitability.” the future. the soil health road map, prepared by an interdisciplinary team of tnc scientists, environmental economists and agriculture experts, outlines how adopting soil health practices on all u.s. corn, soy and wheat croplands could deliver nearly $50 billion in social and environmental impacts annually. as global food demand grows, u.s. agriculture needs to increase production to meet both domestic and international food requirements. managing for soil health serves as one tool for achieving increased production while reducing the societal and environmental impacts of the current u.s. row crop production system. farming practices such as cover crops, reduced tillage, crop rotation and nutrient management can nourish soil and keep nutrients on fields and out of waterways, benefiting both farmers and the environment. tnc also has joined forces with the soil health institute and the soil health partnership on a collaborative effort to advance soil health on america’s farms and ranches, paving the way for measurable economic and environmental gains for farmers, businesses and communities for generations to come. the lessons learned here will also inform agricultural reforms around the world.