 during the past fiscal year, tnc’s leadership gave no small measure of time and attention to addressing and correcting for the effects on our employees, conservation work and fundraising of the covid-19 global pandemic that shook the world’s health care, cultural and financial institutions to their core. in response to the pandemic, tnc made many significant changes to how we did business—closing our offices globally, moving our 4,000-plus staff to a virtual work environment and developing creative ways to remain connected to our donors and supporters. management adopted an appropriately conservative approach to expense management in that unprecedented year, pulling back as markets plummeted in the spring by reducing spending by 20%, cutting top salaries by up to 15%, freezing all pay increases, making targeted reductions to our workforce and halting nearly all travel. fortunately, economic stimulus measures taken by leading economies around the globe helped stabilize financial markets and enabled tnc’s supporters to continue to generously contribute to the organization. in fact, with the engagement and generosity of our donors and supporters, fy20 was our best year on record in terms of top-line revenues. the conclusion of the our world campaign and a number of unique fundraising opportunities, including completing the macarthur climate challenge and raising several large donations to support tnc’s climate and blue bonds work, helped fuel this substantial growth. in spite of the challenges caused by the pandemic, we were able to leverage our global reach and our capabilities in science and conservation—together with mobilizing nearly $1 billion in capital—to achieve significant conservation gains. we further took the opportunity in fy20 to reassess the structure of our investment portfolio and implemented a number of strategies to improve portfolio health. this resulted in performance for the portfolio that outpaced our established benchmarks. looking forward and hoping for a vaccine-enabled return to normal, we see a business with an exceptionally strong balance sheet, continuing robust support from donors and contributors, a crisis-tested resilient workforce and culture all set to advance our ambitious mission to conserve the lands and waters on which all life depends.