 this past june, india experienced one of its longest heat wave on record, with temperatures soaring as high as 122 °f. the scorching conditions killed more than 200 people, and the late arrival of the yearly monsoon resulted in a brutal water shortage. as india continues to suffer the impacts of the climate crisis, its people are facing increasingly dire health consequences. and in turn. many officials in cities throughout the country are doubling down on preparedness strategies for dealing with extreme heat. through recent research into south asia's first heat action plan., nrdc and partners showed that the commitment is yielding meaningful results. published in the journal of environmental and public health, the study focused on ahmedabad, a city in western india with a population of about eight million, which have avoided an estimated 1,100 deaths annually since implementing the plan in 2013. the plan, which nrdc helped craft in collaboration with the indian institute of public health and others, deploys a variety of tactics, including early-warning alert systems, robust public outreach campaigns, medical training to better diagnose and treat heat-related illnesses, and enhanced access to drinking water and shaded areas for the city's most vulnerable populations. kim knowlton. a senior scientist. at the nrdc and one of the study's coauthors, says that the plan's dynamism is one of the reasons behind its success. "'the people of ahmedabad, the city leaders, really owned [the plan], and they have improved it every year since, she says. recent improvements have included activating central cooling locations during heat alerts and providing temporary night shelters for those without access to water or electricity during extreme conditions, and during the summer's heat wave, the city government ordered a stop to all construction and distributed free buttermilk to quench people's thirsts in parks and other public spaces. ahmedabad and hyderabad-a fast-growing city in the hot and arid deccan plateau-also rolled out a "cool roof" program, a cost-effective means of keeping indoor temperatures down that saves energy. in 2017 and 2018, pilot programs in the two cities painted more than 3,000 roofs in slum communities, and in 2019, officials built on the pilots with citywide programs. cool roofs, now mandatory for au municipal, commercial, and government buildings and prioritized for low~income housing, can be made from a variety of materials. some are created by coating a roof with reflective pigments; others are made of coconut husk and paper waste. these structures have proved critical in limiting air conditioner uses which in turn reduces the urban heat island effect, carbon dioxide emissions, and emissions of hydrofluorocarbon (hfc) super pollutants. since its inception, the ahmedabad heat action plan has inspired 23 other heat-prone states and more than 100 cities and districts in india to adopt such plans of their own, with coordination assistance provided by the national disaster management authority and the india meteorological department. "it's a real case study in how to scale says anjali jaiswal, director of nrdc's india program and a senior attorney who helped steer ahmedabad's action plan. "'it's just so rewarding to go back and see that these are really simple, low cost solutions that can be implemented to save lives-and to see how quickly they can be done." the ahmedabad heat action plan has inspired 23 other heat-prone states and more than 100 cities and districts in india to adopt such plans of their own.