 forests of rainbow-colored coral thrive in in september 2015, the administration agreed rugged canyons deep below the surface of to consider giving marine national monument the atlantic. however, these vibrant refuges- status to several new england deep-sea hundreds if not thousands of years old-can canyons and underwater mountains. now, be permanently destroyed by one swipe of an nrdc is urging the obama administration to industrial fishing boat's bottom- trawt net. permanently protect two additional canyons as the del!cate coral provide sanctuary for a well as cashes ledge, home to the largest kelp wealth of unique deep--sea creatures, including forest in east coast waters. the whiplash squid and sea butterfly. some of many other important marine ecosystems the species could contribute to advances in exist in the international waters of the high cancer treatment and human bone repair; seas. which constitute nearly two-thirds of the others have yet to be identified by scientists. world's oceans. these areas lie beyond the nrdc has found ways to protect precious authority of any one country, and are subject seascapes from harmful industry and 10 rules 1ha1 don't adequately protect, this vast development just as we do for critical habitat wilderness from fishing or other industrial on land. to fight for these deep-sea corals, activity, creating a wild west mentality. nrdc's senior attorney brad sewell and senior nrdc spent a decade advocating at the policy analyst alison chase spent three years united nations to rein in this confusion. finally, providing scientific and legal analysis to the in january 2015, the international community mid-atlantic fishery management council, agreed to develop a new treaty that would, and in june 2015, bottom trawling was banned among other things, allow the full protection of in 38,000 square miles of waters ... spanning high-seas areas with exceptional biodiversity. from new york to virginia. that area is now the -scientists are telling us the most important largest protected area anywhere in the u.s. thing we can do for oceans in the face of atlantic or gulf of mexico: sewell says. acidification and industrialization is protect different ocean waters call for different hotspots of marine biodiversity,- lisa speer, conservation tools. for more than a century, director of nrdc's international ocean presidents have protected iconic landscapes program, says. -this new treaty will finally through the designation of national allow us to do that in international waters. monuments, so nrdc urged president obama which cover nearly half the entire planet. to apply the same principle to the seas. it's a huge step forward. -