 local land protection gets a boost. over half a century, the land and water conservation fund—a key federal funding source in the united states for everything from national parks to local athletic fields—has left its mark in all 50 states. but its congressional authorization expired in 2015, and the fund has relied on uncertain stopgap measures. finally, in 2019, after campaigning by tnc and partners, congress and the white house permanently reauthorized the fund—helping to secure its future. turning coral reefs into classrooms. across the caribbean, three new coral innovation hubs launched by tnc and partners are accelerating large-scale reef restoration, with the goal of bringing millions of corals to life over the next five years. home to state-of-the-art lab facilities, these science centers also hosted a virtual field trip that helped 171,000 students in 60 countries learn about the importance of saving coral reefs. protecting the world’s mangrove heartland. indonesia is home to more than a fifth of the world’s mangroves, which protect coastlines, capture carbon and provide essential habitat for birds and fish. but more than 40% of the country’s mangroves have been lost. now, man- grove ecosystem restoration alliance (mera)—a diverse partnership that engages governments, corporations and local communities—is working to protect and restore nearly 1.25 million acres of mangroves in indonesia by 2025, starting with the last remaining mangrove forest in the capital city, jakarta. saving new south wales’ last wild wetlands. in one of the biggest private conservation purchases in australian history, the nature conservancy bought the great cumbung swamp for roughly $39 million. the area contains some of the last large wetlands in the murray-darling basin, the country’s agricultural heartland, where most of the land and water resources are used for crops and livestock. a critical lifeline for water birds like straw-necked ibis and yellow-billed spoonbill, the area is also rich in indigenous culture. empowering indigenous women to protect the amazon. since 2003, tnc has partnered with eight indigenous groups to manage 12 million acres of the brazilian amazon. the work has a special focus on supporting indigenous women as forest stewards. the conservancy has helped women of the xikrin indigenous people produce babaçu oil, a healthy, traditional food similar to coconut oil that can be sustainably harvested and boost the local economy. reducing risks for whales the nature conservancy. california crab fishers and fishery managers are making the seas safer for whales. in 2019, the group improved an early warning system to reduce the risk of humpback and blue whales entangling themselves in fishing gear. the conservancy also helped noaa create online courses about how to respond to entangled whales.