 n the year 2000,the nature conservancy embarked on an experiment in quito, ecuador—to create a mechanism for urban water users to pay upstream landowners to use good farming practices and to conserve or restore natural areas that protect water at the source, rather than pay for expen - sive industrial filtration. we call these water funds. the benefits were manifold: reliable clean water for city dwellers, renewed health of the surrounding landscape and waterways—for people and wildlife— and generation of income for good land stewards. thanks to the creation of the latin american water funds partnership, the concept rapidly spread across latin america, and has further expanded to the u.s., africa, australia and asia. around the world, 2.1 billion people lack access to safely managed drinking water. furthermore, major cities, like sao paulo, brazil and cape town, south africa, have teetered dangerously close to running out of freshwater altogether in recent years (see page 47). climate change is contributing to drought conditions just as urban expansion has reduced the forests and other ground cover crucial to holding and filtering water. in the much-depleted atlantic forest, inland of sao paulo, tnc is accelerating a massive reforestation effort that will help secure the city’s fresh water supply as well as fulfill a significant portion of brazil’s carbon reduction commitment. similarly, in nairobi, kenya, one of africa’s fastest-growing cities, tnc and local partners launched the upper tana-nairobi water fund to reduce erosion from the expansion of farms and tea plantations on the outskirts of the city. and in arid arizona, an innovative water fund has been established for the salt and verde rivers, part of the colorado river basin. here, tests are being conducted to see if farmers switching to crops with water needs that better mirror the river’s seasonal flows can yield crops and businesses that benefit from the transition. tnc is working with 60 water funds around the world, in different stages of development and opera - tion. but we estimate that roughly 690 cities serving more than 433 million people globally—have the poten - tial to fully offset water treatment costs through investment in conservation alone. this year, tnc has launched a water fund accelerator pilot project to test the feasibility of expanding the rate of new water fund development to 45 per year. we also introduced a water funds toolbox to share our knowledge and aid partners and others in launching new projects with or without tnc involvement.