 in order for tnc to deliver conservation at scale globally and meet the urgency of our mission, innovation must be embedded in all that we do. our people must be empowered to try new ideas and ways of working. we must utilize the best data and latest technology creatively to inform and support our work. our processes and organizational structures must be sufficiently nimble to take advantage of opportunities to achieve lasting conservation at scale. we are working closely with our colleagues worldwide to improve our operations, tapping into the expertise and innovation found in every corner of tnc. expanding on our history of solving complex problems, we are approaching challenges through a systems lens, by understanding the dynamic nature of the challenges we aim to address and adapting as we go. we recognize that our people are our key strength and that diversity is core to leading innovation. this is translating to greater investments in developing our people and in hiring and retaining a diverse, highly engaged team. we have launched a number of programs designed to expand our collective skill sets and put into practice new ways of effectively leading in an increasingly interconnected world. we have developed technology and processes that provide easier access to the conservation and financial information most relevant to evaluating the effectiveness of our conservation and fundraising initiatives. this allows us to determine the best investment opportunities for driving conservation at scale and helps us collaborate more efficiently, sharing knowledge and experiences globally. we are focused on embedding our values of integrity beyond reproach, one conservancy, respect for people, communities and cultures, tangible lasting results, and commitment to diversity into everything that we do. these are our bedrock and they are critical to tnc achieving the same level of excellence in how we work as we do in what we achieve for conservation. i am inspired by your commitment as team members, partners and supporters, and by your drive to find new ways to make a meaningful impact on conservation. thank you for all that you do to make powerful change happen in the world.