 the task seems improbable if not impossible. can we improve standards of living as the human population grows without destroying our natural world and, ultimately, life itself? if not, then what is our purpose? as a defender of our natural world, the nature conservancy has gradually increased the breadth of its role both domestically and globally in recognition of our interconnected planet, and we’ve done so without losing our emotional and spiritual connection to nature. should we be content with merely slowing the degradation of our world? the conservancy’s board of directors and management have concluded that we can do much more. we believe that science, technology and big ideas will make a transformative impact on the course of events. the conservancy has a demonstrated history of amazing competence and efficiency in its work. to achieve the necessary scale of impact, we need to materially “up our game” in several areas: 1. we intend to enhance our scientific and technical capabilities. several members of the board have agreed to personally fund the hiring and support of more leading scientists in our field. 2. the conservancy will work to appeal to a broader community of supporters. we crave the energy that a more diverse audience can bring to this movement. 3. we plan to better communicate our message to political constituencies around the world. our amazing state chapters and volunteer lead- ers speak from a grass-roots perspective that is unique in the environmental community. 4. the conservancy has undertaken high-leverage global priorities. they will need greater support to flourish. as this annual report highlights, we are aligning our work with five unifying goals that represent the conservancy’s best oppor- tunities to advance our mission: lands: catalyze land and soil conservation at an unprecedented scale. water: save the last great rivers and lakes. oceans: spark a revolution in ocean conservation. climate: inspire ideas for global climate action. cities: build sustainable cities where people and nature can flourish. i am excited by the prospect that the conservancy can bring these big ideas to life. we are deeply grateful to you for partnering with us to make that happen.