 your road to environmental advocacy began, essentially, in your own backyard when you realized your family was being exposed to industrial pollutants. why did you decide to fight instead of move? gina ramirez: i’m a third-generation resident of the neighborhood. my great-grandparents immigrated here from mexico in 1933, and it’s now a whole community of multigenerational immigrant families. i loved my childhood growing up on the southeast side, but i also didn’t know that the smokestacks and black mounds near my house were a health concern. this brings a different narrative to my advocacy, from the perspective of an impacted person, but also as someone who loves the neighborhood enough to fight to make it better. people are going to outlive these factories, so there needs to be an investment in the people first. i want my son to not only have the same great childhood i did but also the same access to healthy air and safe spaces to play in as children in wealthier neighborhoods. we know better now, and the city of chicago knows better—and needs to step up and protect public health that’s at risk due to pollution. in what ways do you hope chicago steps it up in the next year? i’m a member of many community groups in my neighborhood, including the southeast side coalition to ban petcoke and the southeast environmental task force. we’re asking for comprehensive land use changes. because our neighborhood is zoned as a manufacturing district, a lot of dirty industry, like steel manufacturing, is allowed to keep coming in and keep leav- ing its waste behind. that means air pollution like petroleum coke dust, which comes from the oil-refining process and can damage the heart and lungs. that means high levels of the heavy metal manganese in the air and in people’s soil, which can cause neurological damage, particularly in children. so we’ve asked for a complete ban on manganese handling on the southeast side. we also need “red zones,” which stop more industry from coming into a neighborhood already dealing with cumulative pollution. how do you bridge your work with nrdc and with these community groups? i first learned about the petcoke problem once i started attending community meetings in 2014. it was at one of the southeast environmental task force senior program assistant gina ramierez with her husband and son in their southeast side, chicago, home; toxic petcoke piles left by oil-refining companies meetings when i first encountered nrdc, which sent its staff to explain a plan to help pass an ordinance on the handling of petcoke. this partnership has grown since i joined nrdc. i’m now going door-to-door to meet with more of my neighbors, some of whom still work in the area’s manufacturing industry, to talk about the health hazards and encourage them to come out for meetings with lawmakers where we can work together with nrdc to press for stricter laws against the pollutants in our community. what would you tell someone who notices a potential environmental hazard in their neighborhood, like you did in yours? trust your instinct. if you’re smelling something foul, if you’re getting sick, put up a fight and scream it to the mountaintops. knock on doors and ask, “hey, does this seem wrong to you?” then join forces, like my neighborhood did, with local and national coalitions. strategize. the media will take notice, and people will get embarrassed. it’s unfortunate that city officials aren’t more proactive, but the city has been having meetings with us largely because we embarrassed them. it takes consistent pressure. even when officials fine a factory, it can take six months for data to come out. six months is a lifetime for a mother who’s worried about what her child is breathing. my son is already four. every day he’s breathing polluted air while the city is waiting to get its act together. it’s not fast enough for me. i’m impatient—as any parent and anyone impacted should be.