 as we speed the shift to cleaner vehicles at home and abroad, we are exporting our climate and energy expertise to india, another great engine of the global economy. teaming up with local partners and leveraging nrdc’s know-how across several key program areas, our india initiative on climate change and clean energy has made strides in improving energy efficiency in buildings, advancing u.s.-india cooperation on climate change, and helping india’s communities prepare for the most severe climate-related health threats. as part of our efforts to advance energy efficiency, we brought together three key federal agencies along with local government officials, international technical experts, and leading academics for a national workshop on strengthening efficiency standards for buildings. buildings already account for more than 30 percent of india’s electricity use, and two-thirds of the buildings that will exist in the country by 2030 have yet to be built. we produced a report, based on our own analysis of stakeholder meetings and research, that examines the energy efficiency potential of india’s building sector. now, working with the country’s chief real estate developers, we are creating a professional network for sharing information and fostering support for building efficiency. similarly, we are partnering with the cities of hyderabad, chennai (formerly madras), and gujarat to develop local energy efficiency building codes. to facilitate cooperation between the united states and india on climate change, we held briefings with key policymakers from both governments and released a report reviewing climate-related actions by the two countries at the delhi sustainable development summit. meanwhile, we helped support joint research and development of clean energy solutions through multimedia projects and workshops in new york, new delhi, and hyderabad that brought together more than 100 scientific institutions and companies focused on energy efficiency, solar energy, and biofuels. india: a global powerhouse meanwhile, we helped break new ground in cleaning up our nation’s larger trucks. in august 2011 the obama administration finalized a joint proposal for the first-ever carbon pollution and fuel efficiency standards for new medium- and heavy-duty trucks. working with our environmental partners, we helped shape the regulatory details of the program through numerous federal agency meetings. we also partnered with engine and vehicle manufacturers to push for regulatory improvements that encourage the deployment of new and innovative fuel-saving technologies. nrdc experts were widely quoted in the media when the standards were proposed, helping to pave the way for broad public support. the standards, which include improvement for model years 2014 to 2018, will reduce oil consumption by a projected 530 million barrels and greenhouse gas pollution by approximately 270 million metric tons. taking aim at diesel pollution, we worked with a broad coalition of hundreds of environmental, public health, industry, and labor organizations to help pass the diesel emissions reduction act of 2010. the new national law authorizes $500 million in diesel cleanup funds over the next five years for communities to retrofit or to replace the dirtiest engines, including old school buses, construction equipment, and the equipment used in busy ports around the nation. we now have the technology to eliminate more than 90 percent of this pollution with advanced controls that are standard equipment on new engines. according to the environmental protection agency, every dollar spent by the program will yield between $13 and $28 in health benefits from reduced asthma emergencies, cancer, premature deaths, and other diesel-related health problems. driving global progress in july 2010, the international maritime organization (imo) adopted the first- ever greenhouse gas regulations for new ships, becoming the first industry to regulate itself. we worked closely with the u.s. delegation to the imo, industry leaders, and our environmental partners around the world to spur the adoption of this pioneering program. in real world terms, by 2020 ship operators will save $5 billion in fuel costs annually, and global warming pollution will be reduced by an estimated 45 million to 50 million tons per year. in 2011 we celebrated another global milestone: leaded gasoline has been eliminated in almost every country of the world, and more than 99 percent of the world’s gasoline is unleaded. nrdc helped achieve this as a found- ing member of the partnership for clean fuels and vehicles with the united nations environment programme, the u.s. epa, and a wide range of government, industry, and environmental stakeholders. according to a recent peer- reviewed study, the global phaseout of leaded gasoline will yield $2.4 trillion in health and economic benefits annually, including the elimination of 1.2 million premature deaths every year.