 protecting land is where the nature conservancy's story began. it is our legacy and our future. today, we are guided by our mission to conserve land at an unprecedented scale—for the benefit of people, wildlife and our climate. transforming how land is developed, used and conserved has never been more urgent. as the global population increases to more than 9 billion by 2050, a doubling of demand for food, fiber and fuel will place unprecedented pressure on our forests, our grasslands, our wetlands—on all our natural resources. at the conservancy, we are doing more than ever before to protect critically important habitats and address the needs of those who depend on them, to transform how we use working lands such as farms, ranches and forests, and to inspire sustainable land- use practices in the geographies that face the greatest development pressure. our scientists and conservation experts work at the intersection of development and environmental challenges, forging solutions in partnership with governments, the private sector, civil society and local communities. to achieve a future where people and nature flourish together requires that we augment our land protection efforts to find innovative protection and production solutions. this global lands agenda is served by multiple interdependent strategies, which when deployed in unison create resilient landscapes at a large scale. we are improving siting and mitigation practices in development hot spots around the world through a science based approach that we call development by design. we are driving sustainable commodity production and green growth in agriculture, forestry and other sectors. we are advocating a much stronger and broader recognition of the role that natural carbon storage can play as a lever to tackle climate change. and finally, we are partnering with local communities and indigenous peoples, who are the best stewards of their own resources. where these strategies are deployed in unison, there are multiple benefits: improved livelihoods and rural jobs, food and water security, protected habitats that support biodiversity, and reduced risks from climate change. a vision of truly sustainable, climate-friendly growth takes shape. one place that epitomizes the potential of a new green growth story is the brazilian amazon. it embodies the competing pressures of economic, societal and environmental forces. but it is also a place where the possibilities for generating economic and environmental returns are countless.