 during the trump administration’s first two years in office, our judicial system has often served as the last line of defense against environmental and public health rollbacks. have we faced anything like this? michael wall: this isn’t the first administration i’ve watched take shots at the environment, but the present assault is unprecedented in both scale and severity. there were once areas of agreement. for example, every administration until now supported a department of energy program that sets energy efficiency standards for appliances. president reagan signed this program into law, and president george h. w. bush strengthened it. over the years, energy efficiency standards have saved consumers and businesses hundreds of billions of dollars on their utility bills and cut pollution. yet we’ve had to sue the trump administration to compel it to implement the program. to be sure, we’re winning— but why should we have to sue at all? what makes the trump administration so vulnerable to these lawsuits? are the original laws written too solidly to undo, or is the administration acting haphazardly? sometimes this administration seems more interested in announcing decisions than in making changes that will sur­vive judicial review. the bedrock statutes that protect our environment have been around since the 1970s; the main statute that governs how agencies reg­ulate was enacted in 1946. these laws have well­ established meanings, and they limit arbitrary agency action. but the trump administration doesn’t seem to care to comply. that’s probably partly due to sloppiness and partly due to disdain for the rule of law. in addition to threats to environmental regulations, we are also seeing attacks on freedom of speech. how has defend­ ing the first amendment become part of nrdc’s mission? our adversaries are increasingly try­ ing to criminalize environmental and public interest advocacy. we must fight back, and we have. for example, when powerful industry interests persuaded the wyoming legislature to criminalize the collection of environmental data on public lands, we sued under the first amendment—and won. the u.s. court of appeals for the tenth circuit, which includes much of the west, held that collecting data about endangered species or pollution for advo­cacy is a part of the process of creating constitutionally protected speech. just like the government couldn’t prohibit newspapers from buying ink, the gov­ernment also cannot unduly burden—let alone criminalize—the collection of envi­ronmental data. this kind of advocacy is at the core of our right to participate in our democracy. and winning a case like this reverberates across the country. what do you feel most hopeful about as you face a mounting docket of cases against the trump administration? i’m optimistic that we will continue to be successful in the courts. most judges are not political. they see their job as enforcing the law as congress wrote it. that message—law enforcement—is one we can take to judges of every political stripe and win. in the courts of the united states, the law matters, facts matter, and science matters. and the law and science are on our side.