 across the country, nearly a third of all renters spend more than a third of their income on rent. and for one in six-or 18 million households-housing expenses take up more than half their income. in the face of these mounting pressures, the economic fallout from covld-19 has threatened to plunge millions of vulnerable renters into homelessness-putting them at increased risk of contracting the virus and making them susceptible to a great many more health problems. "housing insecurity has always been a public health issue, whether that's been recognized or not," says sasha porbes, senior program advocate in nrdc's healthy people & thriving communities program. "now we're seeing those health impacts magnified." as the country reels from this double threat, njtoc is pushing for the systemic changes needed to keep people at risk of eviction in their homes and to ensure those homes can meet residents' basic needs. not an communities have been impacted by the housing crisis equally, forbes notes. a long history of discriminatory practices like redlining, persistent wage gaps, and chronic disinvestment in low•income communities and communities of color have prevented black and latino residents from accumulating the same generational wealth as white families and left them overburdened by the cost of rent. climate change is adding to this burden. in the coming decades, trillions of dollars will be invested in climate solutions like modernizing public transit, expanding green spaces, and building electric vehicle charging stations. and while transformative climate action is essential, without safeguards for affordable housing, it may inadvertently lead to gentrification and push out longtime residents. in 2016, nrdc helped found the strong, prosperous, and resilient communities challenge (sp-arcc), which seeks to shape policies and practices that promote public health, racial equity, and climate resiliency. through sparcc, nrdc collaborates with affordable housing groups enterprise community partners and the low income investment fund.the groups work in six cities with local sparcc partners to bring together community advocates, policymakers, mission-driven dm•elopers, community business leaders, grassroots groups, and residents to improve the systems that shape such initiatives as the building of new properties near transit stations or the planning of new grocery stores, among others. key to their mission is the fight for safe and secure housing, which includes everything from enabling more resources for community control to advocating for policies that address climate-related displacement. often, this means ensuring residents have a voice in local development plans. in 2018, f'or example, as part of its expansion plan in the 8ay area, google bought public land near a transit station in san jose, california. knowing that the move threatened to increase nearby rent, local spar cc partners secured seats for residents on a decision-making committee. thanks to the residents' participation and the efforts of grassroots advocates, google committed to investing $1 billion in local housing investments, the equivalent of 5,000 affordable homes. the company also created a $250 million fund to support affordable housing moving forward. preventing resident displacement will be that much more important in the wake of covid-19 forbes explains. "with eviction moratoriums expiring, it's more likely that private real estate investors are going to use predatory acquisition practices to come in and purchase properties, leaving communities more insecure than they were before." on the national level, nrdc continues to call on elected officials to pass broader protections for renters in each relief package. while congress issued a moratorium on evictions in federally assisted properties as part of the cares act, and the centers for disease control subsequently passed a nationwide ban on evictions for those hit financially by the pandemic, both measures expired. the curtailed aid poses a grave danger to the nearly one in six renters not caught up on rent payments and shouldering billions in back pay, as well as the tens of millions of people still out of work. there's an enormous wage gap that reflects racial disparities and discriminatory practices, so it really comes down to affordability," says dawone robinson, nrdc's regional director of energy affordability. low-income families spend, on average, more than triple what higher-income families spend on electricity, heating, and cooling. that's where our work on energy efficiency helps," robinson adds. if we can increase the disposable income families have, then it's not only more likely that they'll be able to afford to stay in their homes, but they'll have a safer and healthier living environment as well."