 october 2018 was supposed to be children’s health month. but when president trump shortened the event to a single day, then put the head of the u.s. environ­ mental protection agency’s (epa) office of children’s health protection on administrative leave, he sent his clearest sign yet that his administration had abandoned its responsibility to protect public health. it’s a pattern we’ve seen again and again since trump took office, from his plan to weaken standards that limit lead and mercury emissions from power plants—safeguards meant to protect children from pollutants that can lead to asthma and other illnesses—to his full ­throated denial of climate change and willingness to leave americans more vulnerable to the impacts of drought, flooding, extreme heat, and disease. instead, trump’s poli­cies have consistently prioritized the profits of polluters over people. nrdc is in court fighting the admin­istration’s reckless acts to roll back pub­ lic health protections against everything from toxic pesticides to lead in drinking water to dangerous air pollutants. here are some of our most recent wins. in response to nrdc’s petition and legal action filed with our coalition of health, farmworker, and environmen­tal groups, a court ordered the epa to finalize a federal ban on chlorpyrifos, a pesticide sprayed on food crops that is especially harmful to children and pregnant women. the agency has asked the court to rehear its case—not a sur­prise, given the administration’s ties to dow chemical, the company that makes chlorpyrifos—but nrdc continues to stay on top of this fight. in response to a lawsuit brought by nrdc and a coalition of health, con­sumer, and environmental groups, the u.s. food and drug administration banned seven cancer­ causing chemi­cals found in artificial flavoring used in various foods and beverages. nrdc sued the trump administra­tion after it suspended penalties meant to enforce automaker compliance with standards that decrease harmful air pollution and help americans get more mileage from a gallon of gaso­line. the u.s. court of appeals for the second circuit found the suspension was illegal and ordered the penalties to be reinstated, adding teeth to fed­eral guidelines that guarantee cleaner tailpipes on our cars. nrdc and partners successfully intervened to support california in a case brought by the chemical giant monsanto, which challenged the state’s listing of glyphosate—found in the company’s roundup weed killers—as a known carcinogen. the victory is a win for science and democracy, and it sends a clear message that companies like monsanto don’t get to tell states how to protect their people from dan­gerous chemicals.