 the challenge: northeastern bolivia is where sir arthur conan doyle purportedly found the model for the paradise he described in “the lost world.” here, at this intersection of five important ecosystems, jaguars and giant river otters share habitat with 620 bird species and many other rare or endangered plants and animals. over the years, humans have left their mark by colonizing, logging and clearing for farms and ranches. the impact of lost forests reverberates far beyond bolivia. when trees are cut down, they release carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas associated with climate change. preventing deforestation reduces the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. threats to northeastern bolivia have captured the attention of conservationists, local citizens, government agencies and corporations. balancing the interests of such diverse groups over the long term will require exemplary levels of cooperation and an enduring commitment to the integrity of the land. how we’re making a difference: public and private entities inspired by this spectacular place have formed a singular partnership that offers a model for public- private cooperation in the interest of the environment. in 2003, harvard university’s john f. kennedy school of government awarded the first roy family award, recognizing outstanding public-private partnerships working to protect the environment, to the noel kempff mercado climate action project. together, the conservancy, the bolivian government, american electric power, pacificorp, bp and local conservationists and citizens are protecting 1.6 million acres in one of the world’s most biologically diverse areas. the largest effort of its kind, it is expected to prevent the release of 4.5 million tons of carbon during its 30 years. in 1997, the project used $1.6 million of its $9.6 million in initial funding to terminate logging rights on 1.6 million acres of government-owned land. with incorporation of that land into noel kempff mercado national park, the park grew from 2.2 million acres to 3.8 million acres. the project also encourages sustainable development by providing local people with alternatives to logging and land-clearing. although this project will span 30 years, its impact will be felt in perpetuity through new conservation partnerships inspired by its example.