 this moment is a remarkable occaslon to invite you to join us in looking back, not just on the past year but also on the past 50 years for both nrdc and the environmental movement. our fight to protect clean air, clean water, and a livable future for all has come a long way. we've achieved so much together-from getting lead out of gasoline in 1913 to helping save the ozone layer in 1987 to halting development in mexico's laguna san ignacio in 2000 to helping achieve justice for residents in flint, michigan, in 2017. as we look ahead to the next 50 years, this moment in time provides us with an opportunity to take stock of all we have achieved-and how much more we need to do. thank you for your sustained support, which is crucial to our work as we press forward. what's foremost in my mind this year is the climate crisis and the devastating impacts it will have on people. it will also affect nearly everything we cherish, as the recent, consecutive united nations reports on biodiversity, lands, and oceans warned us. t0 confront this central issue, we are drawing on our 50-year history of solving tough challenges. we made much progress paving the path for lasting change in the past year-for example, helping new york state pass the country's strongest--ever climate change legislation. working with colorado to advance a zero-emissions vehicle program, and spurring virginia to cap its carbon pollution, making it the first southern state to do so. for even more pointed ways to make meaningful impact, we will work to strengthen our litigation efforts at the federal level, galvanize the political will to seed the changes necessary to a clean energy future throughout all levels of our government, and support and defend science from systematic attacks. we have so much at stake, and failure is not-and will never be-an option. i'm pleased that we're continuing to forge strong partnerships and deepen collaborations to grow the rich ecosystem of the power we need for a livable future for all. i'm proud that this past september, nrdc became a signatory to the equitable and just national climate platform, a group of organizations mapping out a plan for climate policy that prioritizes equity. it's also an exciting time to support the youth climate movement. like many of you, i am deeply moved by the staggering numbers of children and teens who have been leading the global climate protests. we stand with them and are inspired by all they're doing to accelerate the changes we all want to see in the world. our might grows stronger with a rising number of new members and activists, new board members, and nrdc's new president and ceo, gina mccarthy, best known as the 13th administrator of the u.s. environmental protection agency under president barack obama. with her entire career dedicated to serving the public and her unmatched expertise in policy and public health, she is the right person to lead the organization so that we can dream big, aim high, and achieve impactful results. i'm deeply grateful to mitch bernard, our chief counsel, for filling the role of interim president. he is a strong leader with deep knowledge of nrdc's history who advanced important conversations on critical aspects of our work with the staff during the transition period. with this fresh energy, thoughtful strategy, an indefatigable staff, and our all-in attitude, we are moving full speed ahead in 2020-and we will sow the seeds for the next half century. we will continue to strengthen our partnerships with states, businesses, and leaders who are working to decarbonize our world through systems-wide changes: the american cities climate challenge; the regional greenhouse gas initiative, which will soon include pennsylvania; the transportation and climate initiative, a coalition of northeastern and mid~atlantic states and washington, d.c., that are investing in a cleaner transportation system; and our partners abroad in india and china. we will stay the course with our work in climate resilience so that we bolster our defenses against the oncoming effects of climate change from the ground up. including internationally, as we have in india with the continuously improving ahmedabad heat action plan. we will be unrelenting in the fight for clean water for all our communities, as exemplified by our recent work in newark, new jersey. and we will do as much as we can to steer wildlife biodiversity from. irreversible loss with our best-in class acumen in science, litigation, and advocacy, as we've done by making the case for protecting critically endangered animals around the planet at cites, the world's biggest international conference on wildlife trade. i'm especially grateful for the support of each and every one of you and for your commitment to protecting our environment, our climate, and our future. together, we are powerful, and we will create change that's made to last-for the coming year, for the next 50 years, and beyond. sincerely,