 like the brady bunch kids, michael anthony mendez grew up in california’s san fernando valley. but unlike the bradys, mendez, who is mexican-american, didn’t live in a roomy split-level on a tree-lined block. his neighborhood, the north valley section of los angeles, housed two landfills but had no parks for the people—mostly immigrants—who lived there. even its air quality was noticeably poorer than that of the wealthier parts of the valley. today mendez is an associate research scientist and the pinchot faculty fellow at yale university’s school of forestry & environmental studies. his early lessons about social inequity inspired him to pursue a career studying and advancing environmental justice and climate change action at the state and city levels. after earning a master’s degree in environmental policy and economic development from mit, he served as a senior legislative aide in the office of california state assembly member cindy montañez from 2003 to 2006. there, he primarily tackled brownfields, the contaminated former industrial sites that often sit idle due to the expense of remediating them. mendez helped make it easier to redevelop brownfields and to do so in a way that would be beneficial to the local community. he also helped draft a law to ban the use of experimental pesticides—chemicals whose health effects are unknown—on k–12 public school grounds. that ban is still in effect today. currently mendez teaches graduate students about the disproportionate environmental burdens faced by communities of color and low-income communities—from sharing their neighborhoods with power plants and incinerators to drinking contaminated water. he also aims to show his students how residents can help effect positive local change, such as by lobbying for parks or improved access to clean beaches. adrianna quintero, an nrdc senior attorney and the founder of voces verdes, a group that encourages latino leadership on environmental issues, says that having mendez and other latino environmentalists involved in academia is crucial. “the more we can have leaders excited and talking about this type of work to students who are eager to learn, the more likely we are to have a thriving and truly diverse and representative movement,” she says. mendez’s colleagues at the yale program on climate change communication recently released a national survey conducted for a report titled “climate change in the latino mind.” it shows latinos in the united states are now more convinced than non-latinos that global warming is happening and that it is the result of human actions. it also shows they are ready to act on this growing awareness, finding that “nearly three in four latinos want industry, citizens, president trump, and the u.s. congress to do more to address global warming.” further, mendez’s own research highlights how, in california and elsewhere, people of color and latinos in particular have played a central role in adapting and transforming neighborhoods to promote sustainable urban development. “almost all of california’s environmental bills are authored by people of color,” mendez says. he also emphasizes that legislators of color tend to hold more empathy for issues of environmental justice. just look at last year’s environmental justice wins in california: of 25 related bills taken up by the state legislature—from the planning for healthy communities act to the equity and transparency in climate act—the vast majority were authored by people of color, including many latinos. “there may be a false perception that latinos don’t care enough about the environment, but that’s not the case,” mendez says.