 the challenge: the red river valley in northwestern minnesota was once a lush prairie. but as settlers claimed the land—extracting gravel, growing crops, grazing sheep and cattle—the prairies diminished. today less than 1 percent of an estimated 15 million acres of tallgrass still exists, sustaining a remarkable abundance of life, from moose to butterflies. here, the remaining prairie offers an unequaled opportunity to conserve and restore a unique landscape while improving water quality for nearby towns and reducing flooding in the red river valley. however, moving forward with a workable conservation plan is a complex process that requires balancing diverse interests and negotiating toward shared goals. how we’re making a difference: in 2000, the conservancy purchased 24,132 acres in northwestern minnesota, initiating the largest prairie and wetland restoration project in u.s. history and creating a large-scale experiment for conservation partnership. working with local entities, the conservancy plans to restore nearly 20,000 acres of the project site to grasslands and wetlands. within 10 years, the resulting protected area—glacial ridge preserve—will become a national wildlife refuge, providing habitat for prairie-nesting birds and threatened prairie plants and animals. because glacial ridge is important to many communities—local residents, public and private landowners, government agencies, conservation organizations, scientists, recreational groups—collaboration is key to determining stewardship of the land. the conservancy’s partners include the u.s. fish and wildlife service, u.s. geological survey, environmental protection agency, the university of minnesota in crookston, audubon and ducks unlimited. with the conservancy taking the lead, hands-on conservation work began in 2001. goals include the restoration and long-term protection of more than 80 wetlands totaling 8,000 acres, and the conversion of 17,000 acres of agricultural land back into native prairie. to date, the conservancy has replanted approximately 4,700 acres of native prairie and restored 50 wetlands. short-term plans include leasing the unrestored property for sustainable ranching or agriculture while the conservancy works with owners of surrounding land to develop strategies for compatible management and prairie reconstruction. many tracts will be enrolled in a federal wetland reserve program; others will be protected from development through conservation easements. the conservancy has already sold easements to one of its partners, the u.s. department of agriculture’s natural resources conservation service.