 the challenge: two hours outside new york city lies an unspoiled oasis with 60 miles of rushing waters and an amazing array of wildlife. more than 30 rare species and natural communities make their home in the 435-square-mile neversink river watershed, one of the primary headwaters for the delaware river and the purest source of drinking water for new york city. the river contains the greatest diversity of freshwater mussels in the delaware river basin and an abundance of migratory fish and dragonflies, key indicators of the river’s good health. the neversink’s proximity to civilization makes it both a critical resource and a threatened habitat. eighty percent of the river’s water is diverted into new york city’s water supply system. dams and reservoirs have disturbed the river’s flow and temperature, endangering fish, mussels and other aquatic species. now, while the river remains relatively unspoiled, is the ideal time for conservation action that mobilizes modern science in the interest of long-term river preservation. how we’re making a difference: with a broad collection of partners— from the army corps of engineers and u.s. geological survey to trout unlimited and several local townships—the conservancy is working to restore and protect the neversink. the river is now part of the conservancy’s freshwater initiative, which applies the best scientific methods, management tools and monitoring techniques to mitigate threats to important freshwater ecosystems. the conservancy is leading the effort to develop an ecologically sound model for water resource management for the delaware river basin. strategies include, in 2004, removing the inoperative cuddebackville dam, which keeps migratory fish from their spawning grounds, and collaborating with new york city and other water resource managers and suppliers to restore natural flow patterns to the neversink, as well as the other regulated rivers of the delaware river basin. other efforts include restoring imperiled habitats, encouraging compatible economic development and working with local communities to use conservation science to change land-use and development patterns.