 historic conservation of great bear rainforest in canada. the nature conservancy and partners completed financing to help protect a healthy future for 21 million acres of the great bear rainforest, the largest remaining stretch of temperate rain- forest on earth. together, public and private funds raised a total of 120 million canadian dollars to support conservation management and ecologically sustainable business ventures along the british columbia coast. first students graduate from amazon indigenous training center. three classes of 15 students each— representing nine different indigenous groups—have graduated from the amazon indigenous training center in manaus, brazil, since the center opened in august 2006. at the center, students learn conservation techniques that are unique to indigenous lands, which comprise nearly 22 percent of the amazon. the training center is a pilot project of the conservancy and coiab, the largest indigenous federation in the amazon basin. new research camp established in botswana. through its partnership with the african wildlife foundation, the conservancy helped establish a new base camp adjacent to botswana’s chobe national park. the camp gives scientists who are studying the continent-wide decline of lions and other large predators improved access to critical habitat areas. the researchers’ work is shaping conservation strategies to reduce conflict between wildlife and local communities. conservancy expands its global grasslands presence. as part of a goal to conserve temperate grasslands worldwide, the conservancy began laying the foundation for conservation in argentina and mongolia. in argentina, the conservancy aims to work with federal and provincial governments, private landowners and the sheep ranching community to conserve 40 million acres of the country’s extensive grasslands. in mongolia, the conservancy is working closely with government agencies and local communities to protect the planet’s largest remaining area of intact temperate grasslands. world leaders back forest carbon partnership to fight climate change. world leaders at the group of eight (g8) summit gave the world bank a mandate to develop a “forest carbon partnership” aimed at dramatically reducing deforestation in developing nations. deforestation accounts for about 20 to 25 percent of global greenhouse gas emissions. the conservancy was a key player in the discussions to include this issue as part of a comprehensive climate change strategy that addresses all major sources of carbon emissions. the world bank launched the initiative in december 2007 during international climate change talks in bali, indonesia. largest conservation deal in new york’s history. the conservancy purchased 161,000 acres of forest in new york’s adirondacks, the last big tract of privately owned timberland in the park. the transaction— the largest ever for the conservancy in the state—will protect a rich mosaic of wilderness lands and waterscapes. a working forest agreement will allow selective logging to continue for 20 years, helping to preserve 850 jobs at a local mill. first marine protected area network designed to address climate change. the conservancy designed a marine protected area in kimbe bay, papua new guinea, that is one of the first in the world to incorporate both human needs and principles of coral reef resilience to withstand impacts from climate change. with the support of local communities and governments, the conservancy is now working to implement the protected areas and find sustainable financing sources to ensure their proper management. china establishes first national park. the nature conservancy helped china establish its first national park, which will serve as a model for a new chinese national park system. the new park— pudacuo national park in china’s yunnan province—is located in one of the biologically diverse regions of the world. by helping the chinese government properly plan for and manage tourism through this model national park, the conservancy is providing the government with an opportunity to reduce the impacts of tourism and other threats to biodiversity.