 “the bottom line is this: where you drill, you spill,” says franz matzner, nrdc’s deputy director for federal campaigns and one of the ocean protectors leading the battle against offshore drilling. “even a smaller spill puts pollution in the ocean and in the air, degrades the environment, and affects communities. in short, the only real protection from offshore drilling is no drilling.” to that end, nrdc has been defending the united states’ outer continental shelf from offshore drilling since the organization’s founding in 1970. the team dedicated to safeguarding these vast areas of publicly owned coastal waters includes policy experts, attorneys, and marine scientists. in december 2016, a campaign conceived and led by nrdc secured a major victory with president obama’s issuance of a permanent ban on drilling in 98 percent of u.s. arctic waters and huge swaths of the u.s. atlantic. “for those of us who were at the center of the fight, it was the most exciting and gratifying professional moment that any of us had ever known,” says niel lawrence, nrdc senior attorney and alaska program director. just four months later, however—and in a clear kowtowing to international oil conglomerates— president trump announced his america-first offshore energy strategy, an executive order attempting to put atlantic and arctic waters back on the drilling map. then, this january, in response to trump’s order, u.s. department of the interior secretary ryan zinke unveiled a five-year leasing proposal that would open nearly all our federal waters—more than 100 million acres combined in alaska, the pacific, the atlantic, and the gulf of mexico—to dangerous development. it was by far the most extreme plan ever proposed and coupled with news just days earlier that the administration wanted to roll back offshore drilling safety regulations adopted after the deepwater horizon blowout of 2010. our coasts are not for sale from left: deer isle, maine, one of many american coastal communities that could be devastated by offshore drilling; a polar bear in the arctic national wildlife refuge. opposite: an oil rig in alaska’s beaufort sea. opposite page, from left: mira/alamy; steven kazlowski/getty images while the trump administration seeks to give the oil industry the right to drill virtually every coast, cheaply and with inadequate safeguards, nrdc is long on experience when it comes to battling the industry and its lobbyists— and is not backing down. “from the outset, we argued for the permanent ban in part knowing that legally it should withstand any such rollback,” says lawrence. “and we were prepared to challenge one in court if need be.” indeed, in may 2017, nrdc and earthjustice filed a lawsuit challenging the legality of president trump’s attempts to override the obama administration’s arctic and atlantic protections. nrdc is now preparing to challenge the interior department’s disastrous new leasing plan—and will be ready to litigate as needed to defend our oceans and coasts from the trump administration. nrdc’s mission continues to generate bipartisan support. along the atlantic coast, says alexandra adams, a legislative director in nrdc’s nature program, “communities spoke out loudly against drilling during the last administration, and they’re not going to be deterred now. they do not want the pollution or the economic risk that offshore drilling brings. and they refuse to threaten their way of life to enrich the oil industry.” even inland, support on both sides of the political aisle remains strong. “we have senators from wisconsin, nevada, and ohio standing up and saying, ‘not on our watch. we’re going to respect these public waters because they belong to us just as much as they belong to people from new jersey and california,’” matzner adds. “there’s a recognition that the negative impact of drilling will fall on the shoulders of everyone. just as oil spills don’t respect boundaries on an ocean map, neither do the impacts of climate change, economic disruption, and air pollution.” perhaps most important, nrdc is continuing to stand with legislators, thousands of communities, tens of thousands of businesses and organizations, and millions of people demanding that our public coasts be preserved. “this is a very potent moment for the administration,” says matzner. “just how far are they going to go in ignoring the public, the science, and even voices within their own party?”