 as l note how honored i am to be serving again as interim president of this storied organization, i'm also taking a moment to recognize just how important a moment this is-a transitional year to seize hold of and to move full steam ahead toward transformation. there's a lot to do. there's very little time or room for error. and it won't be easy. but we can do it with the collective might we have with all of you, our supporters and member activists. it is remarkable what we have been able to accomplish together. despite the challenges of this difficult year- between the pandemic, the long overdue reckoning over race in the country, and the ruins of the last presidential ad.ministration-we have continued to press forward in the fight for a better, safer, and more just world. we stood up to the trump administration's attempts to roll back our bedrock environmental laws, filing h7 lawsuits against the administration-an average of one lawsuit every 9.94 days-and won 90.4 percent of resolved cases to date. but beyond simply playing hard defense, we're making remarkable progress in laying the groundwork for the change that the country and the world acutely need. this includes the indefatigable work by our advocates in making sure affordable housing, energy, and water are available to marginalized communities. it involves the science studied by our researchers to protect people from the dangers of air pollution and how it worsens diseases such as covid-19. and it incorporates efforts to ensure that the roads and transportation systems of the future are not only sustainable but also just and equitable. you can read more about this work, and our talented staff who lead it in this report~ and we will not letup. we will push the biden administration to achieve bold climate progress, with equity at the forefront. we will seize the momentum we now have to push for the goals that benefit all: a climate agenda that can foster a livable planet; a just and equitable transition that ensures investments in people rather than profit; and the restoring of bedrock laws, science, public health, and democracy that those in power attempted to demolish during the past four years. these interconnecting issues of the climate crisis, systemic racism, and ecosystems health are the most urgent imperatives of our time, and we're already talcing them head-on. after all of the attacks on norms and the damage to our country, we have learned the hard way that we must not take democracy-the foundation on which all of our work rests-for granted. we could not do any of our work without a healthy, functioning government by the people and for the people-whether it be bringing a lawsuit against corporations for polluting our water or air, or by coming together to stand up for climate justice. we cannot ever be a society that lets democracy slip through our fingertips again. the key to all of this is your support, spirit and resolve. we could not have done the work we did these last four years without your sticking with us, and for that, i'm tremendously grateful. we have a lot more to accomplish together, and we will, because that is the only way we'll leap forward-by standing with one another. with gratitude, mitch bernard