 years before the bp oil disaster, two major commissions warned that our oceans—including the gulf of mexico—were in a state of silent collapse. on top of long-standing stressors such as pollution, underwater noise, overfishing, and unsound coastal development, daunting new challenges are putting coastal ecosystems, marine life, and the economy at grave risk. ocean acidification caused by mounting carbon dioxide emissions in the atmosphere has potentially serious implications for the entire ocean food chain, including commercially important seafood. but president obama provided new hope for our ocean realm in july 2010 by issuing an executive order establishing a comprehensive national policy for our oceans, coasts, and great lakes. while the gulf oil spill gave the president’s historic move a fresh sense of urgency, nrdc and our partners had long been promoting the adoption of a seminal environmental policy for protecting, maintaining, and restoring ocean health. after the president assembled an interagency task force in 2009 to develop an oceans policy and a plan to implement it, we helped lead the effort among national, regional, and local conservation groups to formulate and submit strong, science-based recommendations. the adoption of this key policy marks a critical shift in thinking about our seas, not as a bottomless treasure chest to be plundered, but as a critically endangered resource on which countless lives and livelihoods across the globe depend. america’s first-ever oceans policy provides a coherent national vision for managing day-to-day threats to our ocean ecosystems, as well as new approaches designed to protect sensitive areas from an environmental and economic catastrophe like the gulf oil spill. among the new policy’s reforms is a requirement that the more than 20 federal agencies that oversee activities affecting our ocean resources—and have historically operated with different goals and conflicting mandates—coordinate their efforts to ensure ocean protection. effective immediately, each of these agencies must consider decisions it makes in the context of their cumulative impacts on ocean health. moving forward, an interagency national ocean council will help oversee the policy’s implementation, including the development of nine action plans to address priority ocean issues. over the coming year, nrdc will be working to promote and monitor the development of several of these action plans, covering urgent issues such as ocean acidification. meanwhile, we will be making detailed recommendations as another key provision of the policy is implemented: the creation over the next several years of regional coastal and marine plans. these science-based plans, which will be developed for the different ocean regions of the country by joint federal/state planning bodies with public input, will provide a blueprint to guide ocean activities from unsuitable to suitable areas. this planning will provide greater certainty for developers. we will be working to ensure that these plans protect sensitive areas and the overall health of ocean ecosystem upon which we depend for food, medicines, climate regulation, and the very air we breathe.