 nearly 60 percent of all fisheries around the world are being overfished or are in decline. marine wildlife—particularly vulnerable animals like sharks, rays, seabirds, turtles and marine mammals—and the habitats on which they depend are also in steep decline. in addition, fish and other seafood are a vital source of key nutrients for more than 3.1 billion people and provide direct or indirect livelihoods for 10 to 12 percent of the world’s population. despite our dependence on the oceans for food, we know very little about how many fish remain in the sea. thomas kraft is a founder of norpac fisheries export, a successful processing and distribution business dedi cated to accountability, responsibility, traceability and sustainability. he is a partner with the nature conservancy in its efforts to employ traceability methods in pacific fisheries: “my background is as a cpa. i didn’t initially plan to work in the seafood industry. i got into it because i grew up in the pacific northwest and was always interested in marine resources, and i had a client in the seafood industry. i began by developing a swordfish export operation in hawaii back when there were few regulations. i witnessed the depletion of several local fisheries and the threats to cetaceans and sea turtles and came to realize that i was part of the problem but hadn’t even realized it. “that led me to develop a fish-traceability system in 2004. our system can tell you where any given fish came from, who has handled it, how long it’s been in our facility and where it’s going. when i was looking to expand my work, i wanted to avoid what i had experienced in hawaii, and i ended up talking with tnc’s chuck cook and peter maus. “we were able to apply our traceability system to begin a fisheries improvement project in indonesia. this is the first time a fisheries improvement project has taken a multispecies approach to collect data and involve local fishers, managers, processors, distributors, local hotels and customers abroad to create an end-to-end stakeholder chain of interested parties, who are willing to work together to drive the economics so that everybody’s aware and can make rational decisions for the benefit of the fishery. it links the economics to the biologic and environmental in a cost-effective way.” the future. the nature conservancy is driving innovative solutions with communities, fishers, managers and policymakers. tnc and partners from the u.s. national oceanic and atmospheric administration (noaa), the commonwealth scientific and industrial research organisation (csiro) and the science for nature and people partnership (snapp) have been working together with leading stock assessment scientists to develop a user-friendly application, called fishpath. the fishpath decision-support platform combines all the lessons learned from past fisheries management efforts across the globe—the first time all this information has been synthesized in one place and turned into practical advice for managers. specifically it guides the user in identifying the appropriate monitoring, assessment and management options for a specific fishery, given its socio-economic and governance context, goals and needs. but 90 percent of global fisheries operate with no scientific assessment of their health. current methods of collecting data are cumbersome and expensive. specific to pacific tuna fisheries, tnc is rolling out electronic monitoring technology to improve oversight. using motion sensors and gps systems with cameras, government and industry players can see what species are being brought on board. these investments not only provide a lifeline to an ailing ecosystem but also help regional leaders create more informed—and more sustainable—fishery policies. this multifaceted approach will help stabilize regional ecosystems, protect the world’s tuna supply and preserve local cultural traditions. putting that electronic monitoring on board boats solves one problem (lack of data) but creates a new one (too much data). reviewing thousands of hours of footage is cumbersome and expensive. the nature conservancy’s california program, long a pioneer in coastal fisheries innovation, engaged the technology industry to bring the same expertise that helps facebook tag your friends to solve the data overload. by holding a first-ever artificial intelligence competition for top data scientists, tnc spurred thousands of teams to develop algorithms designed to identify when a fish is caught and what type of fish it is. the conservancy then worked with software and electronic monitoring vendors to get the winning solution into the fishery. as these algorithms are exposed to more data, the accuracy will continually improve. the nature conservancy is making the algorithm code available under an open-source license that will enable anyone to use the algorithms freely.