 the covid-19 pandemic has exacerbated the inequities faced by food- and farmworkers who put their health in danger just by coming to work each day. nrdc is pushing to change that. when covid-19 swept through the jbs usa meatpacking facility in greeley, colorado, in march 2020, executives and managers left plant employees in harm's way. even as hundreds of employees began to fall ill, the company's leadership urged staff to continue coming to work, without providing any health screens, face masks, or social-distancing guidelines. it was the local union, united flood and commercial workers (ufcw) local 7, that relayed critical information to the workers and helped them navigate health care. as upcw pushed jbs usa to implement covid-19 safety measures at the greeley plant, its advocates simultaneously implored the occupational safety and health administration (osha) to investigate that plant's negligent response to the virus outbreak. the federal agency responded by imposing a $15,615 fine on the company, seven months later. unfortunately, the situation that played out in colorado last spring is merely one of many instances where workers lack the protections they deserve as they do jobs that put their health and safety in jeopardy. the risks of workplace illness or death, already magnified by the climate crisis, have been further exposed by covid-19. farm and food chain workers-disproportionately immigrants and people of color-are among the most vulnerable. the pandemic underscores the tragically high toll due to lack of action and accountability within the powerful u.s. food and farming industry," says nroc senior health officer david wallinga, md who focuses on advocacy at the intersection of food, nutrition, sustainability, and public health. there's a human toll on the workers and residents of surrounding communities, but also on environmental health." leading up to and especially throughout the pandemic, l\(ju)c has joined with allies to press for better protections for workers, particularly in the agricultural sector. ''the thing i find particularly alarming is how absent federal regulators have been when it comes to worker safety," says juanita constible, a senior climate and health advocate at nroc. as constible says,'' it's pretty stark how few people are keeping eyes on employers. the trump administration also worked to really push a business wish list of attacks on workers' rights," which included collective bargaining and other means to stay safe on the job. unions and other worker collectives play a critical role in worker health and safety, including negotiating for health benefits, such as paid )eave, and holding employers accountable for unsafe practices. in february 2020, the protecting the right to organize (pro) act, which would guarantee the rights of workers to unionize or collectively bargain, passed the house. then it stalled. now, with president biden's pledge of support for the proposal, labor unions and their advocates, including nroc, are poised to propel the bill forward. they'll also press to restore funding and capacity to osha, which saw drastic budget cuts during the trump administration, despite overlapping climate and covld-19 crises that disproportionately impact food- and farmworkers. at particular risk are the health and safety of the food- and farmworkers who toil outdoors, harvesting our fruits, nuts, and vegetables. in 2018, as part of a community partnership led by public citizen, nrdc supported a petition to osha to create a heat safety standard for all workers. currently only california, maryland, minnesota, and washington have some kind of safety standard, and no two are alike. when osha rejected the request public citizen began working with congressional allies to secure protections through the legislature. on october 1, 2020, then-senator kamala harris and senator sherrod brown introduced the asunción valdivia i heat illness and fatality prevention act, named in honor of a 53 year old man who died in 200~ after picking grapes for 10 straight hours in 100-plus-degree heal nrdc helped shape the findings section of the bill; if passed, the legislation would create the first-ever national heat safety standard. it would also provide whistleblower protection for those who speak up about unsafe work practices and workplaces-a critical component because, as constible notes, a key part of worker health and safety is to make sure that workers have a voice." in a july report, ''on the frontlines: climate change threatens the health or america's workers- nrdc and our partners highlighted the fact that black people, latinos, and other people of color are more likely to work in essential industries and jobs than white people. it's clear that the agricultural industry is among those taking advantage of racist structures in turning a blind eye to the suffering of so many of its employees-and worse, restricting their abilities to advocate for themselves. ""with the biden administration, we expect stronger worker protections, coupled with real enforcement on the ground," wallinga notes. ''nrdc and its allies will be watching to make sure that happens."