 rural communities empowered through phone app. with funding from the nethope 2017 device challenge, the nature conservancy has leveraged the rapidly expanding use of smartphones to better connect remote villages. so far, more than 160 villages (totaling more than half a million people) can share strategies for improving forest management and their livelihoods. a recent government push for social forestry will further empower villages to protect forests from overlogging, palm oil plantation expansion and other threats. forest protection is a key component of indonesia’s efforts to reduce emissions under the paris agreement to combat climate change. inspiring adoption of sustainable fisheries technology eight pacific island nations cooperatively manage more than half of the global skipjack tuna catch. one of the eight—the federated states of micronesia—pledged to implement electronic monitoring and human observers on all industrial fishing vessels operating in its waters by 2023. this marks the first time a developing state has made this level of commitment and they have challenged their island neighbors to adopt the same standards. micronesia’s commitment bolsters tnc’s work across multiple countries to advance sustainable fishing practices. conserving one-third of the nation’s landmass. with generous funding from the bhp billiton foundation, tnc and partner organizations are collaborating on the 10 deserts project. covering one-third of the country of australia, the project aims to build environmental resilience across the arid lands of australia’s outback. this new, formal collaboration of indigenous land managers and conservation groups has the distinction of being the largest indigenous-led conservation network in the world. examining the benefits of oyster reef restoration. with support from j.p. morgan and the china global conservation fund, tnc is applying our shellfish restoration expertise to a new project in hong kong. oysters are ecosystem engineers that play a tremendous role in coastal protection, and hong kong oysters in particular have incredible water-cleaning capabilities. the project in partnership with others supports a longstanding aquaculture industry and cultural heritage—oysters have been an important commodity in the pearl river delta for 700 years. project results will help us understand the environmental, social and economic impacts of restored oyster reefs. innovative digital platforms promote conservation tnc and happy elements, a leading digital entertainment company in asia, worked together to raise public awareness about protecting china’s yunnan snub nosed monkey—one of the world’s most endangered primates. through an online game, we reached more than 156 million people within the first week of the awareness campaign. the campaign was shared more than 10 million times on wechat and was also picked up by mainstream media such as the chinese news outlet xinhua. mapping a path forward for vast grasslands. spanning 80 percent of the country, mongolia’s grasslands generate livelihoods for 200,000 families of nomadic herders. tnc’s data-driven assessments have identified the most critical areas for conservation and helped inform the designation of 26 million acres of national and local protected areas—an area the size of kentucky. now we are positioned to continue partnering with herder communities on sustainable land management and ensuring that government agencies protect the places that matter most for people and nature. building a sustainable seafood market in the coral triangle. tnc assisted a tribal group of 10,000 artisanal fishers on the island of manus in papua new guinea to implement a management plan across their entire seascape and create a model for sustainably harvesting sea cucumbers. the new harvest model, which utilized naturevest’s innovative financing, resulted in the export of 1.5 tons of this highly sought-after but threatened delicacy to hong kong, representing a 2.5-fold profit increase. the community is investing these returns into their sustainable business model. new south wales wetland target of tnc-led partnership. tnc is leading a consortium of four organizations dedicated to the stewardship of gayini nimmie-caira—the largest remaining area of wetlands in australia’s murrumbidgee valley. the consortium includes the tribal council of the nari nari people, the land’s traditional owners. the nari nari are playing a critical role in the management of the property. together, we are planning how agriculture, rural communities, indigenous people and nature can thrive in a landscape of global conservation significance.