 “several years ago i was working with other staff to establish a new project for the africa region in western tanzania. known as tuungane (swahili for “let’s unite!”), this project focuses on protecting the extraordinary resources of lake tanganyika, which holds 17 percent of the world’s fresh water, as well as forest systems that support the most intact populations of eastern chimpanzees. this part of tanzania is very remote and underserved. there are no roads, internet, cell phone coverage or basic human services. in the primary schools, there can be one teacher for as many as 200 students. while this area is high in biodiversity, the population is growing rapidly at almost 4.4 percent per year in survey project villages, and the medical system is inadequate to support this. people feel forgotten. a core tenet of our work here—as it is across africa—is to spend time with the local communities socializing our approach and trying to better understand what their goals and dreams are for the places where they live. at one of our early community meetings, i started out talking about protecting forests for chimps and the freshwater systems for fish. a tired-looking midwife then shared her stories of inadequate health facilities and supplies. another young woman stood up and spoke of her sister, who had to take a 22-hour boat ride to the nearest hospital during a difficult childbirth. both the mother and the child died along the way. after hearing of the suffering here, i quickly stopped talking about chimpanzees. what we learned from this community is that we needed to expand the way we think about conservation in africa. we needed to be willing to address other community needs while still remaining focused on our mission. there, that meant bringing in pathfinder international, an international health care partner that provides child and maternal health services, and that has already helped tnc provide more than 10,000 women with access to modern contraception. meeting these needs allows us to intensify our work protecting important habitats for endemic fish and those chimpanzees. this kind of innovation is changing the way we work around the region. we’re bringing the right people together—governments, ngos, and communities—to address the complex and unique challenges facing the people and places of africa. instead of feeling forgotten, the women of tuungane are now showing us the way.”