 nrdc’s tenacity and adaptability—driven by our committed board of trustees, exceptional staff, and growing ranks of generous supporters—have long been the hallmarks of our success. no single effort in our history has better exemplified and enhanced these core strengths than our partnership for the earth campaign. by the close of this unparalleled fundraising initiative in december 2010, dedicated nrdc donors with a shared concern for the fate our planet and its precious resources had contributed more than $500 million, surpassing our goal. this surge of funding provided critical core support that sharply focused our work in addressing our biggest environmental challenges. here are some of the key investments made possible by the campaign. through the support of nrdc’s donors we have: n assembled the largest and most comprehensive energy staff of any nonprofit group to identify and advance the best opportunities for achieving an 80 percent reduction in america’s global warming pollution by 2050; n launched the center for market innovation, which has quickly become a leading voice in documenting and demonstrating the economic potential of clean energy and efficiency, and in advancing effective financing methods; n established a new office in the midwest that has helped combat invasive species in the great lakes, as well as secure pioneering energy efficiency rules and renewable energy standards in the region; n opened an office in beijing that is collaborating closely with local partners in government and the private sector on a range of cost-effective energy efficiency programs, and a series of initiatives to help china build stronger environmental laws, greater transparency, and better mechanisms for enforcement. this new office has also helped position us as the leading nongovernmental player in facilitating international climate negotiations between the u.s. and china; n created the science center to expand significantly nrdc’s overall scientific authority by bringing key technical expertise to our litigation and advocacy work on a range of issues; and n harnessed opportunities presented by new social and digital media platforms—such as facebook, twitter, and staff blogs—to engage new activists and expand our influence. the partnership for the earth campaign has enabled nrdc to score numerous on-the-ground victories across six priority areas: establishing a clean energy future that curbs climate change, reviving our oceans, defending wildlife and wild places, protecting our health by preventing pollution, ensuring safe and sufficient water, and fostering sustainable communities. you will see the achievements of the campaign throughout this annual report. but many of our planet’s most daunting environmental challenges will take decades to address. with this in mind, we will continue to partner with our supporters to advance the kinds of bold, crosscutting strategies that drive transformative change. on behalf of the full steering committee of the partnership for the earth campaign, we offer our deep thanks to all of the dedicated nrdc donors who contributed to this landmark campaign.