 it's been three years sincs presldbnt trump started trying to revive the keystone xl tar sands pipeline-and three years since nrdc began fighting his efforts. but our history of battling kxl extends much farther back-we've been part of a coalition that has blocked the project since it was first proposed 11 years ago. and as the climate crisis deepens so has our resistance to this and other dirty, misguided projects. among them are the two other major tar sands pipeline projects currently in play: enbridge's line 3, which would cross all of northern minnesota's lake country, and kinder morgan's trans mountain pipeline, which would extend from alberta to the coast of british columbia across millions of acres that are as environmentally fragile as they are culturally sacred to canada's first nations. this past year, "nrdc saw some progress in blocking both as we continued to support the many stakeholders engaged in fighting these projects on the ground. enbridge's pipeline got caught up in minnesota's courts following the denial of a key state permit. meanwhile, a canadian federal court has allowed first nations to again challenge permits for the trans mountain pipeline expansion project, putting the project in legal limbo. (adding to the hurdles that kinder morgan faces, in 2018 nrdc threatened legal action against the company if it continued construction, citing a violation of the u.s. endangered species act for potentially risking the lives of southern resident orcas.) josh axelrod, a senior advocate in the nature program, notes that the tar sands indu-try also continues to see investors pull out, further undermining its ability to expand. opposition to new pipelines and investor uncertainty have kept billions of barrels of planned tar sands production from moving forward. at the same time, law makers are facing increasingly urgent calls to slow the production of fossil fuels. the hope is that climate policy around the world is going to continue to constrain demand for oil-and especially oil that hasn't yet gone into production," axelrod says. he also points out the importance of strengthening state~level capacity to respond to potential oil spills, particularly on the west coast, long a center for refining heavy oils. on that front, nrdc pushed for legislation, passed into law in california in october 2019, that will help prepare the state for the dangers of such an event including a spill of tar sands oil). nrdc's pipeline resistance efforts have also included a successful battle against the williams fracked-gas pipeline (officially the northeast supply enhancement project) in new york and new jersey. in the spring, both states denied a key permit for the project, citing its dangerous potential impacts on local waterways. the clean water act gives states the authority to block pipeline construction if companies fail to show that their projects comply with strategy water quality standards and new york has used this requirement to hold up two other pipelines in recent years the pipeline developer has already reapplied for both permits, and nrdc continues to fight the project by submitting additional comments to the new york state department of environmental conservation and rallying public support for denial of the water quality certification once and for all this work is especially critical as the trump administration has tried to short-circuit states' ability to weigh the risks of these projects for themselves. since the beginning of the battle against tar sands, nrdc and our activists have rallied lawmakers to work toward a clean energy future as we push back against the exploitation of this and other dangerous, dirty fuels. "it really has been a proxy to have an important discussion about what kind of energy sources we want to lock ourselves into," says anthony swift, director of nrdc's canada project. through this discussion, he says, ''we raise the point that long-term infrastructure decisions will play a significant role in determining the success of our efforts to fight climate change." "the hope is that climate policy around the world is going to continue to constrain demand for oil-especially oil that hasn't gone into production."