 cities play a pivotal role in climate action: together, they account for more than 70 percent of global greenhouse gas emissions and two-thirds of the world’s energy use. in fact, if u.s. buildings were their own country, they would rank third in the world in energy use. what’s more, residents of many of our nation’s cities are on the front lines of climate change, bearing the brunt of its effects, from heat waves to sea level rise. in light of recent new warnings by the u.n. intergovernmental panel on climate change, federal agencies, and other scientific bodies that we could see the worst impacts much sooner than expected if we don’t act swiftly and boldly, cities have a vested interest in doing just that. to help promote a sustainable future for urban residents, bloomberg philanthropies has launched a $70 million pro- gram for 25 ambitious cities to deepen and accelerate their efforts to tackle climate change. the cities that will participate in the bloomberg american cities climate challenge (accc) were selected because they understand their biggest environmental challenges and are committed to keeping the promise of the paris agreement, with concrete plans to cut emissions by reducing building energy use, increasing renewable energy, lowering vehicle miles traveled, and electrifying vehicles. in turn, this will improve the health and well-being of their residents and open up new economic opportunities. nrdc—which has maintained a dogged frontline effort to make america’s cities healthier, safer, and more equitable places to live—is proud to join with bloomberg philanthropies and delivery associates (a global advisory firm focused on working with governments to improve outcomes for citizens), as well as many other partners, to support the winning cities. nrdc will be a core partner working on overall project strategy, advocacy, outreach and education, and stake- holder engagement. we will deploy technical experts with expertise in buildings and transportation—the two main pollution-causing sectors in most urban areas—to create strong, durable policies for each city. by 2020, the 25 cities will achieve at least 60 mil- lion megatons of carbon emission reductions through accc initiatives alone, and they will hit their collective paris agreement targets with 28 per- cent reductions by 2025. “mayors don’t look at climate change as an ideological issue. they look at it as an economic and public health issue,” says michael r. bloomberg, the u.n. secretary-general's special envoy for climate action and founder of bloom- berg philanthropies. “regardless of the decisions of the trump administration, mayors are determined to continue making progress. the challenge will work with our country’s most ambitious may- ors to help them move further, faster toward achieving their climate goals.”