 we all want vibrant livable communities. nrdc is helping build them with policies that will make our nation’s neighborhoods more efficient, resilient, and vibrant. by changing the way buildings and schools use energy, by putting smarter transportation and energy grid ideas on the table, and by bringing these messages to more people, we can reinvent the way americans live. an nrdc court win forcing los angeles county to clean up toxic waterways when rain flushes los angeles county’s stormwater system, it produces a swirling brew of dirt, chemicals, and fecal bacteria that flows into waterways and onto beaches. the untreated water has subjected thousands of residents and tourists to waterborne illnesses ranging from rashes to dysentery, from neurological disorders to death. in 2008, nrdc and los angeles waterkeeper initiated a lawsuit to hold the county responsible for clean water act violations and require that it immediately move to stop polluting the water. nrdc stuck with the case through a ruling that found los angeles county responsible for the pollution, a u.s. supreme court hearing, and a remand back to the ninth circuit court of appeals—a revolving legal door. finally, in a major turning point in august 2013, the court found the county’s flood control district responsible for the billions of gallons of untreated stormwater runoff it allows to pollute southern california’s rivers and most popular beaches. providing students with healthier food and cleaner air nrdc started working directly with the new york city school system to provide recommendations on environmentally sustainable purchasing practices for school lunches, which are served to almost 3 million city students each day. the pilot program reduced cafeteria waste by 85 percent in eight schools, and the relationship puts nrdc and new york city schools in a partnership with the country’s five other largest school districts: chicago, dallas, los angeles, miami, and orlando. and in a first-of-its-kind melding of education, energy, and environmentalism, nrdc launched a successful crowd- sourced funding campaign to help schools purchase and install rooftop solar arrays that can provide clean, renewable energy. in fact, california’s firebaugh– las deltas unified school district was able to reinstate its music program after installing solar on its schools, thanks to an estimated $900,000 in energy cost savings. designing smarter transportation planning an nrdc study found that if commuters integrate carpooling, public transit, and telecommuting into their daily commutes, they could save more than $1,800 annually, while reducing the environmental impact of their travels. increasingly, americans are choosing to live in walkable communities where they have more transportation choices. yet whether people live in cities, suburbs, rural areas, or towns, nrdc found they can reduce their total vehicle miles traveled by 10 to 50 percent by adopting these simple transportation changes. in fact, nrdc found that if 25 percent of americans adopted one of these alternatives, the united states could reduce annual transportation emissions by 3 to 12 percent, reduce transportation fuel use by billions of gallons per year, and save consumers tens of billions of dollars in transportation spending each year. and we’ll be pushing for these smart ideas to hit the ground. saving energy and money from boston to beijing nrdc and a partner organization launched the city energy project, a long- term initiative to craft and implement cutting-edge plans in 10 cities to reduce energy costs and carbon pollution, create local demand for skilled workers, and produce new market opportunities. the need is obvious. each year america’s annual utility bill—just to power our buildings—is roughly $450 billion. that’s nearly twice the energy consumed by all of south america. starting with those 10 pilot cities, nrdc’s city energy project will cut a combined total of 5 million to 7 million tons of carbon emissions annually—the equivalent of taking 1 million to 1.5 million passenger vehicles off the road. the effort will also create jobs for electricians, architects, construction workers, engineers, building technicians, and software providers. moreover, it will cut energy bills by $1 billion annually. and elsewhere, we: secured a fundamental change in washington state’s utility regulation that eliminates barriers to investing in energy efficiency and grid enhancement by the state’s largest electric and natural gas utility, and establishes a national and international model for sustainable energy reform—a major energy-saving precedent. settled a michigan case under which utilities will invest $200 million per year on energy efficiency improvements in michigan homes, businesses, and industrial facilities. persuaded illinois utilities to invest $1.2 billion over three years in energy efficiency improvements and made sure all households, not just those that buy electricity from their traditional utility, will have access to energy saving incentives. this will yield enough electricity savings to power 150,000 u.s. households over the next six years, creating 3,500 new jobs in illinois by 2015. nrdc also succeeded in passing a major revision to the international energy conservation code, the model residential building energy code adopted by states and localities across the country, which will reduce new home energy use by approximately 20 percent. we brought together the nation’s largest home builders and energy efficiency advocates to recommend the code update, which will save typical new home buyers between $300 and $850 annually on their utility bills. by 2030, this will add up to a national cost savings of more than $100 billion relative to the 2006 code. over that same time, greenhouse gas emissions will be reduced by the equivalent of 560 million metric tons of carbon dioxide pollution, or roughly the emissions produced by 158 coal-fired power plants in one year. and we won approval from the international code council for provisions in building and plumbing codes to reduce water use in cooling towers and water distribution systems, and to permit on-site rainwater use. a proposal authored by nrdc has been approved to reduce the size of hot water pipes leading to showers and sinks. this means less water flushing through the tap while people wait for hot water and required insulation for nearly all hot water pipes in new commercial buildings and many hot water pipes in residential buildings. nrdc is now advocating that the other leading code- writing body, the international association of plumbing and mechanical officials, revise its codes to insulate all hot water piping—a move that would reduce energy and water waste in new homes by 15 to 30 percent.