 in november president obama announced that nrdc founder john adams would receive the 2010 presidential medal of freedom. this is america’s highest civilian honor and a fitting tribute to a man who has done so much to safeguard the health and natural riches of the american people. but in his characteristic generosity, john insists his accomplishments are a testament to nrdc’s extraordinary team. “when i step into the white house and receive this american honor,” john wrote to the staff, “you know my thoughts will be of you—the nrdc team that will always be the world champions of our environment.” thanks to these talented staffers, nrdc is ready to take on the toughest problems, even in difficult political times. the midterm elections washed in a wave of new lawmakers—many of whom will try to undermine our nation’s bedrock environmental protections. nrdc has faced similar upheavals in washington before, and we know what it takes to prevail. congress may present a roadblock, but other avenues for restoring the environment remain wide open. our first priority is to ensure that we defend the laws already on the books. we are determined, for instance, to preserve the integrity of the clean air act and the environmental protection agency’s authority to protect our health and reduce climate-changing pollution. our second priority is to work with willing partners who are moving ahead with environmental solutions right now. we are advising the obama administration on energy efficiency, wildlife protections, and clean water guidelines. we are also working in states where leaders are helping push america into a clean energy future. and we are working with business, labor, and other important stakeholder groups. as we pursue these opportunities, nrdc will be guided by a clear and compelling road map. in 2010 we updated our strategic plan. we identified the six issues we will focus on in the next five years and the capacities we will use to achieve our goals. the plan allows nrdc to remain nimble and responsive to the current political landscape, but it also enables us to build toward our long-term aim: creating a cleaner, more sustainable future. in the end, this is the work of all americans—of all those who believe we share a common duty to protect the air, water, and landscapes that sustain us. as john adams said when he learned of his presidential honor, “this is how we keep faith with future generations.” we are confident that nrdc and our extraordinary team can help guide the way.