 soon after the new congress took office in january 2011, chief republican lawmakers moved swiftly to unleash the most sweeping attack on america’s health and environment in 40 years. rdc quickly sprang into action when lawmakers took aim at american’s bedrock environ- mental laws, including the clean air act, and the environmental protection agency (epa). in early april, nrdc launched a massive cross-institutional campaign and helped compel the senate to vote down four amendments that would have prevented the epa from addressing carbon pollution. our legislative and campaign teams orchestrated a rapid response in the days and hours leading up to the vote. drawing on recent nrdc messaging research that showed that connecting the epa’s air rules to public health risks such as asthma was the strongest possible argument to use, we helped shape the winning message. meanwhile, nrdc trustee leonardo dicaprio broadcast our hard-hitting message to his 2 million twitter and facebook fans. as a result, the senate rejected the proposal, leaving the house with an empty victory for the republican leadership. moreover, our win helped prevent bad climate riders from making it into the continuing resolution being negotiated at the same time. in the late spring, scientific analysis and messaging guidance by nrdc helped shape an ad campaign by the league of women voters that tied votes by senators scott brown (r-ma) and claire mccaskill (d-mo) to childhood asthma. the campaign had a significant impact on senator brown’s favorability ratings, demonstrating for the first time that ignoring this health concern can be a liability for politicians. in a related effort to hold members of congress accountable, we launched dirtysecrets.org to track lawmakers who are voting against clean air and the impact of their actions on health in their home states. the house is now weighing a suite of bills that would roll back safeguards for deadly air pollution such as mercury, soot, and smog. in september 2011, as expected, the house passed the train act, that would repeal the more protective smog and soot limits in the epa’s cross-state air pollution rule and block adoption of mercury and air toxics standard for power plants. but thanks to the hard work of nrdc and our partners, the bill passed under a cloud of controversy, garnering far less support than predicted and drawing a presidential veto threat. we will continue to stand behind the epa and fight any congressional attempts to weaken our clean air protections.