 if you’re looking for signs of division in this country, you can certainly find them. but from where i sit, i see more signs indicating just the opposite: unity, hopefulness, and positive energy being channeled into action. i’m seeing these inspiring signs practically everywhere i turn. i’ve witnessed them as a participant in events like the women’s march and the peoples climate march, which brought individuals together from all over the country—and from all walks of life—who stood up in solidarity for our democratic rights. the passion, diversity, and dedication of those who took part in these movements left no doubt in my mind that we’re in the midst of a national awakening, one that fully recognizes how the protection of people and the protection of the planet are inextricably linked. since nrdc’s inception, all that we do—our legal work, our science, our organizing and public outreach—is geared toward underscoring the basic idea that environmental rights are human rights. our ongoing fight is a fight for all, not just some. but the task before us right now is enormous. that’s why nrdc is growing—in both size and scope—to meet it. since the 2016 election, we’ve welcomed more than 150,000 new members, people compelled to take action after seeing the threats to our nation’s environmental and public health policies. your input will be absolutely critical as we move to implement a new strategic plan that reinforces our core values: averting the effects of climate change, strengthening communities by ensuring equal access to clean air and clean water, and protecting our wildlife and wild spaces. and along with the rest of our members and activists, now more than three million strong, you will help guide us as we continue to take on powerful interests working against the public interest, including those at the highest rungs of government. everywhere i go, nrdc’s members, friends, and partners tell me that you’re counting on us to block the current administration’s attempts to roll back environmental protections and withdraw from international accords like the paris climate agreement. and i always let you know that your faith in us is well placed. for instance, our litigation team has grown by 30 percent since early 2017, as it has been suing the administration an average of once every 10 days. some might look at the list of battles ahead and wonder if we have what it takes to win them. preserving our most essential safeguards, protecting the vulnerable arctic national wildlife refuge, stopping the u.s. department of the interior’s reckless plan to drill for oil and gas off every coast, protecting the clean power plan— achieving these goals will take every ounce of energy and determination that we have at our disposal. but when i look ahead at these challenges and others like them, i remind myself of who and what we’re fighting for: our communities, our country, our planet, our children. i know that there’s no way we can lose, as long as we remain united.