 this past year, i had the privilege of sitting with native american elders and a group of tnc leaders from north america, new zealand, and the indigenous peoples and local communities program. hosting us at the river forks ranch, the nevada chapter had constructed an arbor out of cedar and pine to shield us from the cold morning wind. we sat for three days around a sacred fire at the foot of the sierra mountains and were welcomed by the washoe people in washoe territory. we spent our days learning about the damage settlers have inflicted on native people in north america and what we could do for a better future for all. together we agreed that we needed to break down barriers and work together in a spirit of hope. the rapidly changing environment demands that we work hand in hand to address the challenges to a rapidly degrading world. at tnc, we firmly believe—and our science tells us it is possible—that we can create a world where people and nature thrive together. to succeed, we need to make some significant changes to get the world on a more sustainable path. to jump-start these changes on the scale necessary to avoid a bleak future, we are innovating on our traditional approaches to conservation, finding new levers to effect change in complex systems and working with a host of new and often-unlikely partners. we are focused on four areas: 1) tackling climate change; 2) protecting oceans, lands and water; 3) providing food and water sustainably; and 4) building healthy cities. in these priorities, we are achieving significant results. in north america, our cumberland deal protected 254,000 acres of working forest in appalachia that will sequester 5 million tons of carbon. in mongolia, we helped protect 8.6 million acres of land, surpassing our ambitious goal for 2022. our fishpath software for sustainable fisheries manage- ment is in high demand by governments in latin america, the caribbean and africa. and in australia, tnc worked with local and global leaders on crafting living melbourne, a plan for a greener city that provides health benefits, smart infrastructure, and a science-based road map to identify, plan and implement the highest-impact conservation projects. our strength is in our values, in our staff and in our ability to bridge divides. our successes stem from our people driv- ing change and building a diversity of partnerships essen- tial to achieving our conservation goals. sitting around that sacred fire in nevada, one of the elders noted our efforts to do our work “bigger, faster, smarter” and challenged us to also be “deeper, truer and wiser.” filled with that spirit, i look forward to where we can go—all of us together.