 america is paying dearly for its oil addiction—in devastating spills, a changing climate, and hundreds of billions of dollars sent overseas to fund imported oil. a major part of the problem—and the solution—lies in the transportation sector, which now accounts for nearly 30 percent of our nation’s global warming pollution and 70 percent of our oil consumption. in response, nrdc is helping to revolutionize america’s outmoded transportation system by boosting the fuel economy of our cars and trucks and promoting cleaner and more efficient alternatives for getting around. over the past three years, nrdc members and online activists helped win a long-overdue increase in federal fuel- efficiency standards for cars to 35 miles per gallon by 2016. now, a recently launched go60mpg campaign is building public pressure on the obama administration to adopt a strict fuel-efficiency standard of at least 60 miles per gallon, as well as a tough new tailpipe standard for global a warming pollution, for new vehicles by model year 2025. these improvements would reduce america’s oil dependence by at least 44 billion gallons per year by 2030, cutting consumption by 37 percent, and slash carbon pollution by at least 465 million metric tons per year in the same time frame, the equivalent of taking 80 million cars off the road for a year. but building cleaner vehicles is only part of the solution. we are also working to slash fuel consumption and global warming pollution by limiting the distances that our cars travel. recently, nrdc partnered with a diverse group of stakeholders including transportation experts, industry leaders, and federal agencies, to analyze the effectiveness and costs of implementing nearly 50 different transportation strategies. our groundbreaking moving cooler study found that a comprehensive set of measures—including mass transit, tolling of roads and more compact community development—could reduce carbon emissions from the transportation sector by as much as 24 percent by 2050 and save about 1.5 million barrels of oil per year by 2030—more than we currently import from saudi arabia. as congress prepares to reauthorize the federal transportation bill for the first time in six years, the moving cooler report is helping to inform the debate. meanwhile, we are leading a broad coalition of national, state, and local stakeholders—from housing, business, environmental, public health, transportation, and other organizations— to help ensure that the bill spurs dramatic cuts in our global warming pollution and oil consumption by creating a fast, clean transportation network that is easily accessible and saves taxpayers billions of dollars. on a related front, we are working with a bipartisan coalition of government, foundation, and industry partners to advance free-market strategies that increase competition among various transportation modes and give consumers a broader range of transportation choices, such as an insurance option that rewards drivers for driving fewer miles. last, as we maintain pressure on congress, we are working closely with the obama administration to advocate for a series of smart-growth initiatives that deliver more transportation options, such as commuter rail, and that award federal funding to cities and states for transportation projects based on their energy-efficiency performance, rather than on outdated formulas or politics.