 as climate change continues to exacerbate sea level rise and extreme weather, more and more people find their homes underwater and their lives upended by flooding every year. according to nrdc flood analyst anna weber, low-income communities and people of color are among the most vulnerable. "these communities are both more likely to be located in areas that face higher flood risks and less likely to have the resources and the power needed to address that risk," she says. yet there is surprisingly little good information available showing how communities are affected, adds weber, part or the team behind a new interactive data tool that illustrates the concentrations of severe repetitive loss (srl) properties in each state and county, using claim data from the national flood insurance program (nfip). these properties-the most flood prone buildings covered by the nfip-have flooded over five times each on average, and their numbers are growing. as weber points out, it's important to note that these properties are just the tip of the iceberg; while the nfip is likely the best source of national flood damage information, relying on insurance data leaves out everyone who is uninsured, people who will also get left behind by the policy decisions those datasets inform. in houston, the neighborhood of eastex/ jensen is one of several that saw massive damage from hurricane harvey in 2017-and it's still recovering. it remains one of the worst places in the city for frequent street flooding and dangerous high-water road crossings, and almost 1 in 100 occupied housing units are on the srl list that figure is double the average in flood-prone harris county, and higher by an order of magnitude than the risk laced by texans overall. eastex/jensen is also a majority latino area, with a median household income half that of harris county as a whole and a poverty rate of over 30 percent. the area is also highly vulnerable to gentrification, according to the neighborhood's resiliency plan. with the dataset underlying the losing ground tool now publicly available, weber expects it will help advocates push lawmakers at every level of government to take the actions needed to reduce flood risk, including prioritizing support for the areas most in need, addressing inequities in recovery programs, streamlining application process, and reducing wait times for grants, the future of so many communities depends on these actions before the next disaster strikes.