 the challenge: for more than a century, yellowstone national park has been an icon of american conservation, a symbol of what investment and stewardship can do to preserve a landscape that is home to elk, bighorn sheep, bison, grizzlies and rare landscape features from geysers to historic rivers. but survival of the 2.2-million-acre park depends on what happens in an even larger landscape: the 27-million-acre greater yellowstone ecosystem, as big as the state of tennessee. in recent years, human settlement and development and a bewildering array of public and private entities—three states, two reservations, 20 counties, seven national forests, two national parks and three national wildlife refuges—all with a stake in preserving the area, have had to negotiate with each other. protecting greater yellowstone means protecting one of earth’s last remaining temperate ecosystems. across this wide swath of human settlements, pasture lands, forests and federal parks roams the largest population of hoofed wildlife and big predators in the contiguous 48 states. keeping nature intact in this vast and varied region is a high-stakes, larger-than-life task that must transcend biology to include both sociology and economics, balancing the needs of human beings with the imperative to protect an iconic, at-risk landscape. how we’re making a difference: strategy, collaboration, good science— the nature conservancy’s idaho, montana and wyoming chapters are investing all this and more to develop a conservation approach that will work to protect the landscape and honor the needs of ranchers, farmers and families. guided by natural delineations of climate and geology, fire and flood and plants and animals rather than politically created boundaries of state, county or preserve lines, the conservancy is identifying conservation threats, from unplanned residential development to riverside erosion, and developing solutions. in the long term, the conservancy is focused on protecting the winter ranges that are home to wildlife, preserving migration corridors for large mammals and keeping the 12 rivers that originate in the area healthy and flowing. this painstaking, delicate work requires building strong relationships among many constituencies—from county governments to family ranchers—and developing solutions that work for all. in an equation of history, economics and conservation, achieving balance is both an art and a science.