 something is missing from new york’s ubiquitous street food carts and to-go counters this year. the white foam beverage cups and takeout food clamshell containers that became an ever-present litter and pollution problem in the nation’s largest city beginning the 1970s have finally been banned. the big apple joins more than 200 cities and counties that have prohibited the use of polystyrene foam food and beverage containers, which are environmentally problematic, in part because of their brittle composition. discarded foam litters streets and sidewalks, parks and beaches, creating cleanup challenges for property owners and city sanitation employees alike. it also causes pollution problems as the containers enter street-corner storm drains and then get flushed into local rivers and bays, where small pieces of foam are often mistaken for food by fish and birds. the new york city council sought to curb the use of these types of containers through a 2013 anti-litter and pollution- reduction law—legislation that nrdc helped pass. but a five-year industry litigation and lobbying campaign funded by the american chemistry council and the dart container corporation (the world’s largest manufacturer of polystyrene food and beverage containers) blocked the law’s implementation. in the intervening years, nrdc defended the law and continued to push for action, joining forces with city officials and other environmental groups to keep attention focused on the issue. even kids got in on the act. last spring, new york city schoolchildren rallied outside city hall on world oceans day to highlight the ongoing crisis of marine plastic pollution. the students had been studying the pollution as part of a unit led by the environmental education group cafeteria culture. “it should be our decision to ban foam because we live here in new york city,” said a fifth grader, sharon, from public school 15 in brooklyn. “innocent animals . . . have to deal with the mess that people make.” finally, in october 2018, a new york state appeals court upheld new york city’s ban on these dirty materials. nrdc had participated in the rule- making and filed an amicus brief in the case, providing evidence refuting the plastic industry’s objections to the law and its claims that dirty foam could somehow be “recycled,” even though there is no independent market for this material. the ruling vindicated environmental activists who have fought to reduce litter and pollution on their streets, and it gives a jolt to worldwide efforts to cut back on the ever-growing amount of single-use plastics.