 an expanding population and globalized economy demand more sustainable ways to harvest our food, maintain our water supplies and develop energy resources. the nature conservancy works with business, communities and governments to develop replicable models of development that maintain nature’s health. colombia has enacted a new nationwide law requiring all mining, energy and infrastructure projects to follow smarter development guidelines that consider environmental impacts to entire natural systems. this legislation was largely influenced by the conservancy’s science and government engagement work in five different regions of colombia. the total area of forest stewardship council– certified forests has more than doubled in indonesia—from 2.05 million acres in january 2011 to 4.13 million acres in july 2013. over the past decade, in collaboration with different institutions, the conservancy has directly helped timber concessions covering 84 percent of that area achieve fsc certification by providing training in reduced-impact logging and improved harvest planning, and by identifying high conservation value forests. nine young scientists have been named as inaugural naturenet science fellows, a nature conservancy partnership designed to help kick-start conservation toward addressing the challenges facing people and nature in the 21st century. each fellow will pursue research that promises to deliver crucial answers regarding sustainable food production systems, clean water supplies, energy futures and urban ecology. after years of declining water quality, the conservancy, the environmental defense fund and the water department for bloomington, ill., agreed to protect drinking water for more than 70,000 residents as a replicable model for the region and beyond. the groups are partnering with farmers to construct wetlands that capture nitrogen before it reaches the drinking water supply and to reduce runoff while maintaining farm yields. the conservancy has been instrumental in steering the hurricane sandy recovery conversation toward natural solutions. conservancy ceo mark tercek was appointed to new york gov. andrew cuomo’s 2100 commission, and the conservancy worked with new york city to identify and implement a mix of natural and “built” infrastructure to better protect the city from future storms. the conservancy was instrumental in helping the u.s. forest service cover a budget shortfall after a long fire season depleted its firefighting budget early. the conservancy and other conservation organizations pushed congress to put $400 million back toward programs that invest in forest restoration efforts that reduce the risk and intensity of fires. the breakthrough collaboration between the conservancy and the dow chemical company continues to help dow and the business community recognize, value and incorporate nature in their global business goals, decisions and strategies. the collaboration was awarded the 2013 roy family award for environmental partnership, which is presented by the kennedy school of government at harvard university every two years to celebrate an outstanding public- private partnership project that enhances environmental quality through novel and creative approaches. the conservancy’s state chapters took leading roles in 13 state and local conservation funding ballot measures in the november 2012 election, in many cases providing strategic management, financial support, voter outreach and endorsements. twelve of the 13 campaigns were successful, generating more than $700 million for land and water conservation and parks. snap (science for nature and people) is an unprecedented collaboration among the conservancy, the wildlife conservation society and the national center for ecological analysis and synthesis to find practical ways in which the conservation of nature can help provide food, water, energy and security to earth’s fast-growing population. snap will harness the expertise of many organizations, scientists, policymakers and practitioners, breaking down the traditional walls between disciplines, institutions and sectors. a research study led by the conservancy indicates that wyoming’s core area strategy, which was implemented in 2008 and limits infrastructure development within areas of high sage grouse population densities, is likely to be critical in reducing future declines of sage grouse. the report also notes that additional federal investments of $250,000 in conservation easements could help reduce projected long-term grouse population declines by 62 percent within the core areas.