 nrdc’s first artist-in-residence, jenny kendler, recently had a piece on view at the storm king art center in new york’s hudson valley as part of an exhibition called “indicators: artists on climate change.” how did you work with her on it? elizabeth corr: kendler created a sculpture featuring 100 colorful, reflective birds’ eyes—each representing a differ- ent bird species threatened or endangered by climate change. it helped nrdc talk about the importance of the migratory bird treaty act (mbta), which is currently facing threats from the administration (see page 16). it was amazing to see the public response—families all coming to the exhibit together and relating to the art in different ways. an important part of this—and any—artistic project is that we’re also activating the work through a series of programming. for kendler’s piece, we organized a “day of the bird,” a special day of activities that included a bird- drawing class with a live falcon, a musical performance, readings, and a panel discussion to spark conversation about the importance of the mbta. it really allowed people to engage more deeply on the issue through a variety of media. what made you choose to partner with storm king in particular? the hudson river valley has a big place in nrdc’s history. one of our first law- suits back in the 1970s was aimed at protecting the area from a con edison hydroelectric plant set to be built on storm king mountain. [the development would have irrevocably damaged the landscape’s beauty, sensitive eco- systems, and the local livelihoods that depended on the river’s health.] it feels like a full-circle moment to see kendler’s art backdropped by a beautiful region we helped protect. but just as important, this is an important region for migrating birds. in general, we try to be purposeful in finding a place-based connection between the art and our advocacy work how does your work intersect with nrdc’s policy advocacy? can art help make the case for legislative change? one example of this happened after a 2016 exhibition we worked on with chicago’s museum of contemporary photography. it spotlighted the dangers of petcoke, an industrial byproduct of tar sands oil processing that was being dumped near homes on the city’s southeast side (see page 30). the exhibition’s artists spent close to a year working in the community to learn about the impacts of the pollution and documenting aspects like the five-story-high piles of dust towering along the banks of the calumet river. the exhibition was so meaningful because it really put pressure on the city of chicago to pass an ordinance to clean up these petcoke piles and to have stronger regulations for how that waste was stored. it was, without a doubt, in part because these artists could help amplify the demands of community members and activists. you’ve been with nrdc for nearly 11 years. how has your approach to your work changed? in the beginning, i spent a lot of time trying to convince people why the perspective of the artist is important in environmental advocacy. i don’t have to do that as much now. it’s clear that artists have a critical role to play in solving climate change, in building awareness. i want art—and the collaboration and partnerships it brings—to continue to be one of the tools for nrdc. because it’s really about channeling human voices on a human issue. and art is a way of bringing people who may feel alienated by a certain issue back into the conversation. you don’t have to be a policy expert to be moved by what you see.