 drew wynne was fixing up the floor of a walk-in refrigerator at his charleston, south carolina–based start-up coffee company in 2017. the 31-year-old diyer purchased goof off, a methylene chloride paint stripper, from lowe’s. while applying the chemical, he wore gloves and a respirator. the following day, his business partner found him dead. after wynne’s death, his devastated family learned that methylene chloride is responsible for dozens of fatalities in the united states, many of them contractors and diyers. its noxious fumes can cause liver toxicity and cancer and can even trigger heart attacks. for a decade, nrdc has worked to strengthen and reauthorize the toxic substances control act, with the expectation that the u.s. environmental protection agency (epa) would ban certain uses of methylene chloride and two other toxic solvents (nmp and tce) under 2016 amendments to the law. during the final days of the obama administration, the agency did finally propose to ban the specific uses of the chemicals— including use of methylene chloride in paint strippers—but president trump’s epa has failed for the past two years to adopt these rules. after four more deaths and under mounting public pressure and questioning from democratic lawmakers, former epa chief scott pruitt testified to congress in may 2018 that he had “made the decision to proceed” with the ban. but neither he nor his successor, andrew wheeler, has made any discernible progress toward that supposed goal. in the face of such federal inaction, we joined together with safer chemicals, healthy families—a coalition of 450 organizations and businesses—and hundreds of thousands of concerned consumers to call on ceos to stop selling paint strippers containing this dangerous ingredient. nrdc also purchased a stock share in lowe’s in order to attend its june shareholder meeting to make our case directly to the board and ceo and planned a press conference prior to the meeting. our calls were heard: after lowe’s pulled the products from its shelves, sherwin-williams, home depot, walmart, canadian tire, auto- zone, and amazon followed suit. “all these retailers have agreed there are safer alternatives to methylene chloride,” said brian wynne, brother of the late drew wynne. “sadly, their actions are too late for my brother and the many others who have been harmed or killed by these toxic products.” shelley poticha, managing director of nrdc’s healthy people & thriving communities program, noted that families like the wynnes were key in educating consumers and inspiring so many to request the ban. “as a result, this victory signals that the chemical industry— with its vast financial resources, consultants, lobbyists, and a friendly epa trying to dismantle toxics programs— won’t always get its way,” she says. in december 2018, nrdc submitted a 60-day notice letter to the epa, informing it of the intent to sue over its failure to finalize a proposed ban on the use of methylene chloride in paint strippers. if agency officials continue to stall, our attorneys will see them in court.