 my favorite part of the nature conservancy is our tradition and practice of bringing together diverse people and finding common ground to make important things happen for nature. in this regard, 2015 was another strong year. my colleagues and i are proud of the progress we’ve made, thanks to you—our supporters, partners, volunteer leaders and fellow environmentalists. our financial house is in good order, our team is stronger than ever and we’re pursuing an ambitious plan to address the world’s most significant environmental challenges. all around the world we’re gaining momentum in our efforts to protect important ecosystems, transform how people value nature and inspire greater support for conservation. the following are a few examples of the successes you have made possible over the past year. protect. staying true to our roots, we are still in the business of protecting lands, rivers and oceans, especially in situations where there is extraordinary ecological significance at stake and where the scale of the opportunity is likely beyond the reach of other organizations. in january, for example, we completed one of the biggest land deals in tnc’s history: a 165,000- acre, $134 million acquisition of forests, rivers and other wildlife habitat in washington and montana (see page 16). the project links privately owned parcels dispersed among protected lands, mostly within u.s. national forests. the “checkerboard” parcels purchased in this transaction almost certainly would have been developed otherwise. we can achieve success like this only with great partners. thanks to supporters open to financial innovation, we were able to secure 95 percent of the capital from impact investors through naturevest, tnc’s new impact investment unit. we will always rely on—and greatly appreciate— the generous support of traditional philanthropists, and now additional funding from mission-driven investors is leveraging our donors’ contributions and allowing us to accomplish much more. transform. transforming how society values and uses nature means working with businesses, governments and communities to help leaders develop policies and practices that support healthy natural systems. because this approach relies on intellectual —not financial—capital, there’s no limit to what we can accomplish. take, for instance, our work in nairobi, kenya, where we are establishing africa’s first water fund (see page 26). with the help of great partners, tnc is using this water fund mechanism—a model we pioneered 15 years ago in quito, ecuador— to help kenyans transform how they manage land in the watershed of the tana river, the re- gion’s main source for drinking water, agriculture and hydropower. through the water fund, downstream water users pay fees to support conservation projects that protect upstream lands, improving filtration and regulation of the river’s flow. it’s a win-win for nature and people: the upstream conservation practices protect wildlife habitat, improve water quality and supply, increase agricultural yields, and save downstream users money by avoiding the need for costly water treatments. first across latin america, and now all around the world, water funds are allowing tnc to bring together community groups, farmers and ranchers, local and federal governments, businesses of all sizes, and fellow environmentalists to scale up on-the-ground conservation with multiple benefits—water security, biodiversity protection and economic development. inspire. to scale up strategies like these, we also need more people on our side. that’s why we are ramping up our efforts to inspire greater support for nature—to grow that group of people who love nature and serve as its champions. transformative science will be critical to those efforts. last year, we continued to build close partnerships with leading universities and their scientists. we can achieve success like this only with great partners. the milestone project also includes acreage in the eastern cascade range of washington state. (snap) collaborative convenes scientists, policymakers and practitioners to develop practical, nature-based solutions to chal- lenges at the intersection of nature and human well-being. and our naturenet science fellows program—a collaboration with columbia, cornell, princeton, stanford, the university of pennsylvania and yale— is now in its third year of building the next generation of conservation science leaders. this year’s fellows are focusing on clean energy technology, water security and sustainable agriculture. on the policy front, we generated great momentum on election day this past year in the united states, achieving the biggest conservation funding victory in u.s. history. tnc worked in 19 states—both blue and red—to win bipartisan voter approval of 27 measures that dedicate more than $29 billion to the environment. i’m proud of the work my colleagues and our volunteers put into making that happen. but we can’t stop there. those victories make me hopeful that we can break the logjam on the most pressing challenge we face: climate change. we have begun a 50-state climate strategy that taps into our local resources to achieve reductions in greenhouse gas emissions in whatever way works best for each state. it includes an alliance between tnc and environmental defense fund to accelerate the transition to clean energy, rebuild the political center on climate and make natural infrastructure part of the climate solution. and, of course, we’re also pursuing our climate agenda all around the world. for instance, we’re working with farmers, loggers and others in tropical forest regions to implement sustainable development practices and reduce deforestation, a major driver of greenhouse gas emissions. and we will do everything we can—together with our partners—to help build the most robust international climate frame- work possible. looking forward. as a science-based, nonpartisan, inclusive organization that brings people together to find common ground and commonsense solutions, we are well- positioned to protect vital habitats, transform the way society values and invests in nature, and inspire and broaden the constituency for conservation. none of this will be easy, but i believe there is reason to be optimistic. tnc can be an effective force for change in the conservation movement by bringing together people and organizations with diverse views and encouraging them to set aside their differences, learn from one another and work collaboratively toward shared goals. together, we can accelerate progress on the world’s most pressing environmental challenges. thank you again for all that you do to help us con- serve the lands and waters on which all life depends.