 the greater sage grouse, a spike tailed bird known for its unique waggling. thumping mating dance, is an icon of west. "we live and work in a spectacular, wild of other rocky mountain species (including part of the country where wolves, grizzly bears, elk, mule deer, pronghorn, and golden eagles) bison, wolverines, and all sores of other wild that rely on that land-good news not only for the american west; its very name comes from the critters still exist," says matt skoglund, director conservationists but for hikers, campers, hunters, sweeping sagebrush landscape that extends all of nrdc's northern rockies office in bozeman, anglers, and business owners, the way from montana to new mexico. montana. we're working hard to protect that increasingly, ranchers are joining that unfortunately, that grassy habitat is now just wildness as well as fight the expansion of dirty unofficial coalition, understanding that what's half the size it was a century ago. development, energy projects and push for the clean energy good for the bird is good for the herd. ranging from livestock grazing to oil and gas future our world desperately needs." "the successful conservation of the greater drilling, has chipped away at the grouse's home that hard work is paying off. in september sage grouse, our livelihoods, and the future and caused the population to plummet-from 2015, after decades of advocacy by nrdc in of our children depend on coordinated plans 16 million in 1900 to as few as 150,000 today. collaboration with other conservation groups, for managed grazing and healthy working and the problem is far more complex than the the interior department and the forest service landscapes," says doug thompson, a rancher health of just one species. the sage grouse is adopted one of the most ambitious plans ever from lander, wyoming.. who serves on the state's a bellwether for its entire ecosystem: as sage contemplated, one that secures protections for a sage grouse implementation task force, grouse numbers decline, so do those of more than whopping 35 million acres of sage grouse habitat the entire northern rockies region, with the 350 other wildlife species thats hare its habitat. across 10 states, greater yellowstone ecosystem as its center this kind of degradation of critical habitat along with safeguarding the future of the of gravity, is at an important turning point. a is all too common across the rocky mountain sage grouse, the historic action helps hundreds surge in fracking, coal mining, and other fossil fuel development has taken a toll on the area's increasing development. skoglund and nrdc's diverse ecosystems. but wins like the greater other experts based in bozeman work on the .sage grouse victory not only help set the stage ground throughout the region, fighting for lasting to dial back fossil fuel extraction, but also ramp protections for species including grizzlies and up development of renewable energy that will the pallid .sturgeon, and working with ranchers safeguard wildlife and preserve our public lands to help them protect their cattle from wolves and while protecting the health and economies of bean without resorting to lethal methods. local communities. in september 2014, nrdc won a lawsuit that "the new sage grouse plan basically puts restored protections under the endangered the conservation of wildlife habitat on equal species act for wyoming's wolves, and the footing with the interest to develop,"' says organization continues to work to improve wolf bobby mcenaney, senior lands analyst at management plans in the northern rockies by nrdc. "incorporating conservation concerns submitting formal comments and pushing for in the permitting process for oil drilling is a key changes. critical difference." and in december 2015-four years after of course, the sage grouse is but one example nrdc teamed up with the greater yellowstone coalition, sierra club, and defenders of wildlife to launch the bison coexistence fencing project to help reduce potential conflicts between wild bison and landowners-montana governor steve bullock made an unprecedented move by giving yellowstone's wild bison expanded year round habitat. now the animals have more opportunities to migrate out.side of the park's borders and stay in montana in all seasons. these victories are a testament to determination and the incredible power of collaboration. they show that the combined efforts of a wide range of .stakeholders-despite their sometimes wildly differing perspectives- can go a long way in helping to preserve our natural heritage. and they prove that not only can wild species coexist with smart, clean energy development and land management, they can thrive.