 three years after winning a $97 million legal settlement that requires the city of flint michigan to replace its lead water service lines, nrdc is still on the ground holding officials accountable and using similar tactics as we fight alongside the residents of newark, new jersey. national news coverage. of the water crisis in flint, michigan, dwindled not long after the march 2017 settlement of the federal lawsuit brought by nrdc, concerned pastors for social action, flint resident melis.sa mays, and the aclu of michigan. but it has remained top of mind for the nrdc lawyers who are working to make sure the city of flint and michigan state officially uphold their legal obligation to find and fund the replacement of flint's lead and galvanized steel pipes. '"people think once you win a case, it's over," says mark kelly, a strategic communications manager based in nrdc's chicago office. "but that's not the situation in flint where we have been fighting to make sure um lead lines really do come out or the ground in a way that's accountable to the people there, it really goes to show the tenacity or our lawyers." senior attorney dimple chaudhary, who was lead counsel on the ease, knew from the start that the $97 million replacement program would require steady oversight, especially given flint's lack of resources. we've worked to make sure we could track what the city is doing. what the state is doing-and what they should be doing." she says. dissatisfied with the progress on the ground, nrdc went back to court in 2018 to press the city to improve its techniques for finding lead. service lines. by february 2019, its officials agreed to begin using a data-driven approach to the work and to produce monthly reports on their results. meanwhile, in the subsequent months, chaudhary and her colleagues, along with the local community groups, launched a public outreach to try to make sure that all residents knew their rights to have their pipes replaced before the end of the city's replacement program. the shift worked: by fall, the city of flint reported that it had investigated more than 24,000 of its 28,000 water lines and replaced about 9,000 of them. the ultimate success ~ of the pipe replacement program is exciting. chaudhary notes, but adds, "there's so much more that. needs to be done in flint. to make the city whole among other things this means addressing the medical medical conditions and property damage that resulted from the water crisis. there's a concern that. flint. will be forgotten and then, who will do that work?" she asks. while some issues may be outside of nrdc's areas of expertise, "it's not just about fixing the water. it's also about restoring people's faith that the government is looking out for them: -dimple chauohary, nrdc chaudhary says, maintaining relationships in the community will ensure that nrdc can stay engaged as the recovery continues. this ongolnc work in flint has been an important model for nrdc's involvement in other cities grappling with lead in their drinking water. in newark, new jersey, where lead contamination also remains a serious problem and where nrdc and the newark education workers caucus filed a joint lawsuit in 2018, we've played a similar role in demanding accountability from officials. while newark has shifted its stance from denial to grudging acknowledgment of the issue, it is still not providing filters -or critical instruction on the proper installation, use, and maintenance of filters-to all affected residents. "when my family and i first heard about the recent lead problems in our drinking water, we were terrified," felicia alston-singleton, a resident of public housing in newark's west ward and an nrdc member, said in a court declaration. "l've had a really hard time getting any information about my own home's water. l worry that the city will only tell my landlord if there is a problem and that no one will tell me. l'm terrified that we're all being exposed and don't know it." advocates have heard stories like alston singleton's all too often. a september 2019 report titled watered down justice, which nrdc coauthored with the environmental justice health alliance for chemical policy reform and coming clean, found that ongoing water contamination in majority black cities like flint and newark could be related to a history of community disinvestment, residential segregation, and discrimination. the research team analyzed u.s. environmental protection agency data from 2016 to 2019. they noted that drinking water systems in violation of the law for the entire study period were 40 percent more likely to be in places with higher percentages of populations that were people of color. and even when actions were taken to compel repairs, it took longer for water systems in communities of color to come back into compliance. "'one of the hardest takeaways from this work is that people can have brand-new pipes and still never trust that the water is safe," chaudhary says. that's the damage and the lasting lesson of flint. in newark, we have to get this right-and quickly. it's not just about fixing the water. it's also about restoring people's faith that the government is looking out for them."