 3.1 reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. fy 2012 (july 2011 – june 2012) 3.2 date of most recent previous report (if any). none (first report) 3.3 reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.). biennial 3.4 contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. alex kennaugh 40 west 20th street new york, ny 10011 3.5 process for defining report content. meeting of all department and program directors (coo, cfo, program director, communications director, development director, and corporate counsel) and then individual meetings for each section to determine materiality of content. 3.6 boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). see gri boundary protocol for further guidance. programs and operations within the united states and china. 3.7 state any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. any indicator with a limited scope has been identified in the response to that indicator. 3.8 basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. no significant comparability issues anticipated. 3.9 data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the indicators and other information in the report. unless otherwise specified, the quantitative and qualitative data and information contained in this report refer to all natural resources defense council operations for fiscal year 2012 (july 1, 2011 – june 30, 2012). readers are informed as to when aggregated data are a result of estimates. the economic-financial data are derived from our accounting systems and from nrdc’s nonprofit irs tax form 990. human resources data are derived from policy documents and the payroll system. environmental performance data are based primarily on utility bills and direct meter readings where available, and on estimates of nrdc’s pro rata share of buildings on a square footage basis where necessary. greenhouse gas emissions have been calculated according to the greenhouse gas protocol. 3.10 explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). none (first report) 3.11 significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. none (first report) 3.12 table identifying the location of the standard disclosures in the report. page 32 3.13 policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. if not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. also explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider(s). we are not seeking external assurance this year.