 helping african communities get paid for preserving land. the hadzabe, a hunter-gatherer tribe in northern tanzania, secured tenure to 79,000 acres of traditional hunting grounds with help from tnc and partners. this paved the way for the sale of carbon credits from forests protected by the community. the $300,000 in revenue is sending children to school and employing wildlife rangers—earning the hadzabe the un’s prestigious equator prize. a new insurance program for reefs reefs shelter fisheries and protect coastal communities from storms, but they can be damaged by hurricanes. along the coast of mexico’s yucatán peninsula, tnc worked with hotels, governments and universities to create an innovative trust, funded by state taxes and tourism fees, that purchased the world’s first insurance policy to finance coral-reef and beach repair after severe storms. raising climate awareness in china to raise awareness of global warming and its impact on oceans, tnc cosponsored the elysium epic trilogy photo and video exhibition in beijing, shanghai and chengdu, china. the exhibition featured artwork from expeditions to the arctic and antarctic oceans, and the western pacific, and was viewed by over 100,000 visitors in 23 days. protected forest generates carbon credits. the nature conservancy’s lush valdivian coastal reserve in chile protects one of the last remaining temperate rainforests on earth. after halting deforestation in the 124,000-acre reserve, tnc developed chile’s first certified carbon credit project. the project has now avoided an estimated 580,000 tons of co2 emissions—equivalent to taking more than 120,000 cars off the road for a year. ceos speak out on climate the ceo climate dialogue is a bold new coalition built by industry and select nonprofits—including tnc—to advocate for smart climate legislation. the group issued an urgent public call to enact long-term federal climate policy, including an economy-wide price on carbon. and in november, they brought their unifying message to capitol hill. nature inspires at climate week nyc nature took center stage at this year’s climate week nyc, which was held in conjunction with the un climate action summit. thanks largely to the nature4climate coalition tnc helped initiate, more than a third of the 200- plus climate events focused on using nature as a solution to fight climate change. during the summit, 65 countries committed to net-zero carbon emissions by 2050.