 rising above brazil’s two largest cities, são paulo and rio de janeiro, the iconic mantiqueira mountain range represents a battered remnant of the nation’s endangered atlantic forest. its restoration, however, holds the potential to help secure fresh water for city dwellers, transform rural economies and contribute 10 percent of brazil’s national forest restoration commitment under the paris climate agreement, sequestering 260 million tons of carbon dioxide over 30 years. paulo pereira is the environmental secretary for the municipality of extrema: “one of the main objectives of the mantiqueira conservation plan is to transform rural properties into producers of environmental services. areas that have been reforested sequester carbon, maintain soil fertility, promote and nurture biodiversity, and produce water. “the mantiqueira range is the land of water [‘mountains that weep’ in the tupi-guarani indigenous language, due to the many springs found in the range], which is the most essential environmental service on the planet. transforming rural properties into water producers is essential to ensuring supply to the large cities, which in the case of extrema happens to be são paulo, brazil ́s largest metropolitan region. “i have been working in extrema for 22 years, focusing on building the knowledge that made it possible to implement this project. so this is a summary of all my professional life, of my dedication and of everything i believe in regarding forest restoration. this will guarantee the future of our region to the next generations, by ensuring that the name of the mountains where we live, mantiqueira, continues to mean ‘the mountains which produce water.’ ” the future addressing climate change is the defining challenge of modern environmentalism. reforestation in tropical countries, where opportunity costs are low and tree growth rates are high, is a relatively inexpensive and scalable carbon sequestration opportunity. but even “inexpensive” solu- tions require outside funding, which has proven impossible to find at scale. brazil’s mantiqueira mountains offer millions of underutilized hectares to be restored, the beginnings of favorable market and policy frameworks, and easy access to latin america’s largest markets. together, these factors mean that restoring native forests could become more financially attractive to landowners than the low-productivity cattle grazing that currently dominates the landscape. the nature conservancy intends to create the enabling conditions that make forest restoration a land use of choice in the mantiqueira. this project brings together two of the conservancy’s long-standing strategies: first, water funds. we will use the network and trust built through 10 years of the são paulo water fund (which conducts forest restoration in a portion of the mantiqueira to improve water security for downstream residents) to quickly establish 20 restoration hubs. they will create local networks, disseminate best practices and channel public funding to restoration projects. second, forest restoration. we will build on tnc’s expertise in tropical forest restoration and our efforts to make the financial case for “economic restoration”—forest restoration that produces timber and fruit, as well as ecological benefits. by creating tangible financial benefits for land- owners, we can establish a new restoration economy and drive a virtuous cycle capable of changing land use across millions of hectares.