 a message from the president. effective conservation requires a global perspective, one that uses the best available science to assess where and how to take action to protect the diversity of life on earth. but ultimately, much lasting conservation is local. that is to say, the conservation of earth’s most ecologically important places can be accomplished only with the active engagement and support of those whose lives and livelihoods are dependent upon them. we at the nature conservancy recognize the intrinsic link between conservation and human welfare. increasingly, therefore, we seek to deepen understanding of how healthy, fully functioning ecosystems provide the best hope for ensuring the well-being of people. we believe the promise of these projects will unlock the will and resources of governments, international agencies, the business sector and the broader charitable community to participate in conservation at the scale that is required. large-scale conservation projects—projects that are large enough to sustain natural processes over the long term—now define the nature conservancy’s work. here are just a few examples of the significant strides we have made in the past year: • in the great bear rainforest along the central coast of british columbia, we are working with local environmental groups, the forest industry, the provincial government and first nations to help conserve 21 million acres of temperate rainforest. • the great rivers project is focusing on three of the world’s major watersheds—the upper mississippi, the paraguay/paraná in brazil and the yangtze in china—with the goal of finding ways to conserve freshwater habitats and accommodate human needs and sharing that knowledge with others. • our global marine initiative is working with local communities, national governments and other conservation organizations—such as world wildlife fund and conservation international—to create a shared strategic approach for marine protected areas throughout the world. • and in the forests of the southeastern united states, where the legendary ivory- billed woodpecker was rediscovered this year after decades of presumed extinction, our local programs are working with partners to restore thousands of acres in the big woods of arkansas. but within all of these large-scale efforts are tales of inspiration on a human scale—stories that connect people and place—in terms that are personal, intimate and moving. within our larger marine work, for instance, paul lokani, of papua new guinea, says he’s protecting coral reefs and restoring fish stocks in kimbe bay “to build a future” for his son, jeremy. victor fung, a prominent hong kong businessman, relates how a trip to our unique project in china’s yunnan province reconnected him with his broader cultural heritage and “made me a conservationist,” as he put it. and jean harris, a retired school teacher in southern california, speaks to the tonic as well as the importance of permanence and continuity that places like ormand beach provide. “we’re restoring history,” she says. in an extraordinary year, when extreme forces of nature affected the lives of so many, it’s reassuring to look back from an institutional perspective and see a year of achievement, of people taking astonishing action to protect a natural world that ensures our physical and our spiritual well-being. this work can only be accomplished with the help of you and our supporters. thank you for your contributions to our global mission and our shared future.