 if there’s one question i have been asked time and again during these tumultuous days, it is: “how do you stay hopeful?” and what i reply is that i see hope all around me. it’s in all our actions i’ve seen up to this critical point of inflection—and reflection. to me, our actions have formed a clear beacon of hope in our fight for the environment, climate, and a healthy world for all. i see it in the evidence of the progress we have achieved. progress in a historic midterm election with the highest level of voter turnout in a whole century, with results that ushered in the most diverse group of representatives bringing the environment to the forefront—1,400 candidates committed to 100 percent clean energy by 2050 and notable pro- environment gains, including 46 representatives and 10 new green governors. progress made in no small part by the incredible team at nrdc. like our attorneys, who have scored major victories in 22 out of the 26 resolved cases in the last two years—proving to be one of the strongest firewalls against the trump administration’s devastating assaults on the environment and public health. just this year, we stopped the construction of the keystone xl pipeline, protected the northeast canyons and seamounts marine national monument for good, and secured the legality of the california ivory ban. progress from the ousters of two ethically bankrupt gov- ernment officials—u.s. environmental protection agency administrator scott pruitt and u.s. department of the interior secretary ryan zinke—thanks to the steadfast drum- beat of nrdc’s supporters and members. and progress from september’s global climate action summit, with more leaders making more decisive commitments to act on climate change, including 70 cities committing to net-zero carbon by 2050, and the many state, regional, and city governments and multinational companies committing to zero-emissions vehicles. at the same time, we have never been more determined to keep pushing forward, as the challenges ahead of us are immense. we are plainly seeing the effects of a warming planet, from the devastating wildfires across california to the intense rainstorms that repeatedly drench the southeast. confirming what we’ve witnessed, both the october report from the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change and november’s national climate assessment issued urgent, stark warnings—that this clear and present danger of climate change will only get worse unless we act swiftly. and adding to the challenges set before us, we have a federal government that remains antagonistic to climate action. but none of this will keep nrdc from its un- wavering fight for a livable future—and we’ll do so on every front and with every tool available, with collective power and voice, through inspiring partnerships. there is a green awakening afoot in congress, and the time is now for nrdc to continue to identify unique opportunities to push for the progress we need, including working with government representatives who understand the urgency of the issues and figuring out how to move the needle on climate in creative ways. on the state level, we will also work with newly elected governors in colorado, nevada, maine, and elsewhere to make clean energy a priority. and we will keep providing the winning cities for bloomberg philanthropies’ american cities climate challenge with the technical support they need to turn their carbon-reduction goals into reality while creating green and inclusive economies for our communities. there is one current that runs through all of this work: the passion and participation of our members and activists—a movement that is now well over three million strong. it is thanks to the power of your voices and inspiring actions that we are able to make meaningful progress. and no matter how tough things may seem, we are beyond grateful for the opportunity, every single day, to work toward the common goal of protecting this home we share. with the benefit of hindsight, it is clear now that 2017 sowed the seeds of opportunity and 2018 allowed us the chance to nurture and give these seeds what they needed to flourish into the exact actions that are required—into political action, policy action, legal action, and people action. now we will continue on this upward trajectory, toward true change.