 nearly 20 years ago, sharon buccino and a college friend outfitted themselves with a canoe, camping gear, and enough food for five days and set off on a float trip along utah's green river. the duo paddled through labyrinth canyon, making frequent stops to come ashore and explore the red-rock cliffs. ..you could go high above the river to take in breathtaking view's- no one and nothing in sight." buccino says. "it was so peaceful." buccino, who now directs the nature program's lands division, was just starting out as a lawyer at nrdc at the time,. and even then she was aware of the vulnerabilities of these otherworldly canyon in the face of possible oil and gas development and mineral extraction since they are located outside of the national park boundaries, they weren't protected,"' she says. flash forward to march 12, 2019: the day president trump signed into law a sweeping lands protection package. both the senate and the house of representatives passed the bill with overwhelming majorities, and congress easily had the votes to override the president if he attempted a veto. the bill, renamed the john d. dingell jr. conservation, management, and recreation act (cmra), protects lands in nearly every state. it safeguards more than 13 million acres of pristine natural habitat and nearly 620 miles of rivers. advocates call the cmra one of the biggest public land bills of the last quarter century. more than half of the lands the cmra protects as wilderness are in utah-including the canyons buccino admired two decades ago. (however, tha bill doesn't address the lands at issue in litigation over bears ears and grand staircase~ escalante national monuments.) nrdc has been working in utah for more than 30 years and has built strong relationships with local conservation advocacy groups. one such partner is the southern utah wilderness alliance, whose staff buccino has stood beside in court many times in efforts to block oil and gas drilling and other harmful activities. this persistence and commitment to local stakeholders have long been part of the dna of nrdc, adds buccino. we go someplace and we're willing to stay there for the long haul," she says . .,.at the same time, we keep our eyes open for the opportunity to act and seize it." this is what happened with the lands bill, as payoff for years of work on the ground came when the stars aligned for congress to advance the cause. yet the cmra isn't perfect. under a provision from senator lisa murkowski of alaska, the act authorizes the privatization of hundreds of thousands of acres of federal lands in her home state (see "what will it take to save the last frontier?" page 00). these wilderness expanses could now be lost-parceled off into subdivisions, commercially developed, or sold for mining or oil and gas drilling. one more positive outcome of the cmra's passage was the permanent authorization for the land and water conservation fund. previously, congress had failed to reauthorize the fund, which provides crucial grants supporting federal, state, and local conservation programs, and it had expired. as a result) federal, state, and local agencies had fewer resources to help advance projects that would create more green space and enhance access to nature for communities. still, buccino doesn't expect this progress will end the fight to ensure that funding is faithfully appropriated annually. nrdc will need to continue to support that fund, in part by lifting up the voices of its diverse stakeholders. since buccino first floated on the green river, she's come to realize that we're all in this together. we can no longer afford to look at issues in isolation," she says. ''what happens to our climate affects the lands we act to conserve. what lands we conserve affect what happens to our climate. how we treat people affects whether we can thrive together."