 preserving alaska's massive forests and fertile seas means sustaining indigenous ways of life, protecting habitat for iconic wildlife, and safeguarding one of our planet's best climate solutions. the fate of alaska's wild places loomed large in the waning days of the trump administration's assault on the environment. in november, the u.s. army corps of engineers denied a permit for the pebble mine, a massive gold and copper mine proposed at the headwaters of bristol bay. it was the latest 2020 setback for the project, which threatens the world's most productive wild salmon run and the communities and ecosystems that depend on it. throughout the year, high-profile opposition intensified as a permit decision neared, undercover videos revealed pebble's duplicity to federal regulators, and morgan stanley became the latest financial partner to abandon the project. {in june 2020, the investment firm dumped more than 99 percent of its shareholding in northern dynasty minerals, the mine's owner, following a targeted public pressure campaign.) but the battle isn't over. until bristol bay is permanently protected, the indigenous tribes and communities of bristol bay won't rest. nor will nrdc, as our attorneys prepare for litigation in support of the permit denial, continuing the work with our alaska-based coalition partners begun more than a decade ago. meanwhile, in the state's southeast corner, the 1 million-acre tongass national forest found itself again on the administration's chopping block. the u.s. forest service announced in october 2020 that it would exempt more than half of the tongass from the roadless rule, a nationwide protection that helped throttle decades of fast-paced clearcutting.at stake are iconic species like the alexander archipelago wolf, the continent's highest density of brown bears, and the traditional ways of life of native communities who have relied on the intact forest for food and medicine for millennia. protecting the tongass is also critical climate policy: a dense carbon sink, it stores more carbon per acre in its centuries-old trees than almost any other forest on the planet. in response, a coalition of indigenous groups, local businesses, and environmental organizations, including nrdc, sued in december to block the move. alaska's land- and seascapes are the last of their kind. to save them is one of the most obvious and most critical opportunities in our fight against climate change, and on behalf of our matchless biological heritage.