 india’s landmass supports one-sixth of the world’s human population and one-eighth of the world’s biodiversity. it has the highest population of the three globally iconic and threatened species—the bengal tiger, asian elephant and indian rhino. india recognizes that a low-carbon economy is fundamental to advancing human development while conserving the environment. by 2050, india’s energy needs are projected to increase by 170 percent to meet the demands of its growing middle class and 200 million indians who currently lack access to electricity. it has thus committed to achieve 40 percent cumulative electric power capacity from renewable energy sources by 2030, and simultaneously create an additional carbon sink of 2.5 billion to 3 billion tons of carbon dioxide equivalent through large-scale reforestation. however, solar and wind power projects require 30 to 40 times more land per unit of energy generated than conventional energy sources like coal. in such a context, how can india ensure that its two goals do not undermine each other? the nature conservancy has partnered with a research organization, the center for study of science, technology and policy, to bring forward a solution to this challenge. we are using tnc’s development by design approach to create a decision-support tool that uses landscape-level conservation planning for advancing renewable energy development while avoiding impacts to sensitive natural areas. we are helping the government’s renewable energy agencies in the central indian states of madhya pradesh and maharashtra to locate ideal sites for renewable energy projects that have low ecological and social values. much is at stake in this region, which is the heart of india’s wildlife. the two states alone support 22 percent of india’s tiger population and have the highest diversity and population of indigenous communities. by demonstrating success here, we can scale up landscape-level planning for infrastructure development across the country, as it experiences the most rapid infrastructure expansion in human history.