 scientific evidence is mounting that neonicotinoid pesticides, or neonics, are toxic to bees and linked to colony collapse disorder. (some neonics are even thousands of times more toxic to bees than ddt.) in response, nrdc filed an emergency petition with the u.s. environmental protection agency requesting an immediate one-year review of neonics’ impact on bees to determine if their use should be prohibited on bee-pollinated crops and ornamental plants, including shrubs and plants sold to consumers as “bee-friendly.” the problem is complex but urgent, and we’re pushing for important first steps to fix the damage already done before it’s too late. protecting california’s waterways water was the clear winner in two separate federal appeals cases brought by nrdc and our partners. by ruling to protect the threatened delta smelt—a tiny bellwether fish species that signals the health of the san francisco bay-delta—the court solidified the restoration of this large, vital estuary. and following a six-year legal battle in southern california, a federal appeals court found los angeles county liable for the untreated storm water polluting the los angeles and san gabriel rivers, which flow into southern california’s beaches and threaten the health of millions. the u.s. supreme court solidified this victory in may 2014 when it denied l.a. county’s request to review the appeal. saving alaska’s pristine, wild places bristol bay, whose untouched waters are home to the world’s largest sockeye salmon fishery, is being threatened by 10 billion tons of contaminated mining waste. with local partners, nrdc has been working for years to protect the area from destruction. finally, in 2014, mining heavyweight rio tinto announced its divestment from the proposed pebble mine project, and nrdc helped compel the u.s. environmental protection agency to propose new rules that would block the massive mine. shutting down chile’s hidroaysén dam project the people of chile and members of nrdc stood up to the energy companies that planned to build five mega-dams on the baker and pascua rivers, two of patagonia’s wildest waterways—and after eight years of campaigning, the chilean government finally shut down the ill-advised project. but we didn’t stop there. we also offered an alternative solution: a clean, renewable energy plan that will complement increased energy efficiency and help power the country while protecting patagonia’s rich biological and cultural diversity. save the monarch butterfly thanks to the heavy use of the weed-killer glyphosate (marketed as roundup), which kills off the milkweed that these pollinators need to survive, monarch populations have plummeted by more than 90 percent in 20 years. so nrdc petitioned the u.s. environmental protection agency to perform an urgent review of glyphosate’s impacts and restrict the chemical’s use. in october 2014, when the epa approved enlist duo—a mix of glyphosate and an older, also toxic, herbicide—we immediately sued. we’re also developing butterfly “highways” by planting milkweed along migration routes, and nrdc’s artist-in-residence is helping build awareness in the midwest by distributing biodegradable balloons filled with native milkweed seeds and instructions on how to disperse them. silencing underwater ocean noise marine mammals, such as whales and dolphins, rely on their sense of hearing to perform all of life’s most basic functions— navigating, securing food, and finding a mate—but an increasingly noisy ocean is putting their very survival at risk. after five years of intensive work with nrdc and a broader coalition, the international maritime organization released guidelines for reducing underwater noise from commercial ships around the world—an important step toward making the oceans quieter and safer for sea creatures. protecting elephants from the ivory trade with 30,000 forest elephants killed for their tusks every year, these animals could be gone within a decade. in august 2014, nrdc pushed two of america’s largest ivory markets, new york and new jersey, to ban ivory sales and establish harsher penalties for traffickers. nrdc is continuing to fight for elephants, with plans to take state-level bans to california, the second-biggest ivory market in the united states, while working to strengthen federal ivory restrictions.