 thank you for everything you did over the past year to help protect lands and waters around the globe. when i look back on the nature conservancy’s accomplishments in 2014, i couldn’t be more proud. of course, all of the work that is celebrated in the pages that follow is possible thanks to people like you. many of you made financial donations; others gave your time and expertise for nature; still others helped us connect with businesses, governments and universities critical to our partnership approach to conservation. it’s safe to say that tnc has never been stronger. 2014 was our best fundraising year ever, in large part because it was also our most collaborative and innovative. thanks to your support, we enter 2015 well-positioned to protect important places, transform the way people value and use nature, and inspire greater investment in conservation. with this position of strength come three responsibilities we take very seriously. first, we have the responsibility to use our resources wisely. in 2014, we successfully completed a five-year plan committing us to being fiscally disciplined, financially sustainable and strategically focused. we are now embarking on a new five-year plan to ensure that we maintain this financial discipline. second, we have the responsibility to achieve great conservation results. we have extraordinary successes to celebrate from the past year. these range from the big acquisition of the powderhorn ranch in texas to the establishment of new land conservancies in kenya and new marine protected areas in haiti. finally, we have the responsibility to set ever higher goals for our performance. tnc has never been in better shape, but the challenges we address have gotten bigger, too. everything we want more of—healthy forests, grasslands, coral reefs, biodiversity itself—is in decline. everything we want to reduce—deforestation, overfishing, carbon emissions— has increased. we must work harder, think bigger and try new approaches to meet the challenges ahead. that’s why we are investing in new strategies to accomplish our mission. in early 2014, for example, we launched naturevest to source low-cost “impact capital” in order to take our conservation projects to a larger scale. already, results can be seen in kenya, where our livestock to markets project is helping communities get a better price for their cattle while managing grazing lands that also support wildlife. and our science for nature and people (snap) partnership launched 12 multidisciplinary working groups to deliver rapid scientific analysis of pressing conservation issues, such as guiding responsible development in the western amazon and pinpointing how natural habitats can protect coastal communities from the impacts of big storms. the world is counting on us more than ever. but thankfully we are not in this alone. all of our conservation achievements over the past 63 years have depended on the support of people like you and on our ability to bring together individuals, governments, scientists, investors, corporate partners and other ngos to tackle environmental challenges. together, we can use our potent blend of imagination, experience, optimism, courage and collaboration to protect the lands and waters on which all life depends. thank you again for your support.