 the challenge: preserving the diversity of life on earth by protecting lands and waters will require the commitment, hard work and resources of many organizations and many individuals. in the united states, where rapid growth often threatens the quality of life by destroying natural areas and resources, the conservancy must help develop a broad, conservation-minded constituency whose defense of a healthy environment supports work at a scale that addresses these threats. how we’re making a difference: across the united states, ballot measures have become an important tool in securing funds to protect our quality of life by preserving clean water and natural places that support wildlife and enrich the human spirit. by bringing conservation issues before a broad community of voters, ballot initiatives have the potential to leverage more than $100 in public funds for every dollar raised privately, helping to finance key conservation projects, goals and priorities. the conservancy works with public officials and other key partners to design, launch, guide and monitor local conservation-focused ballot initiatives. demonstrating the effectiveness of these partnerships, voters in 15 states, through statewide and local ballot campaigns, passed initiatives generating $4.35 billion for conservation in 2003—especially impressive in the face of a weakened economy. for example, california voters passed proposition 50, which provides $3.4 billion toward keeping water clean and protecting beaches, bays and coastline. the conservancy helped shape the measure and helped develop and finance the campaign, particularly through voter education and outreach. nevada voters passed an initiative yielding $200 million for water, parks and wildlife. and in virginia, voters approved a $119 million initiative providing funds for state parks and natural area preserves. because state and local ballot initiatives have proven so successful in supporting large-scale conservation, the conservancy will work with local partners in support of several initiatives in 2004 and is researching the potential for public finance campaigns in latin america.