 nothing less than a steady resistance in the courts in corporate boardrooms, and on capital will save the arctic at this pivotal point in history. the battle for the soul of the arctic feels never ending, but so is nrdc's commitment. in the past year alone, our advocates defeated president trump's illegal attempt to reopen 125 million acres of the arctic ocean to offshore drilling and helped stop a seismic exploration proposal that would have trampled some of the arctic national wildlife refuge's most delicate ecosystems. "nrdc also helped move the arctic cultural and coastal plain protection act through the house of representatives and introduce the arctic refuge protection act in the senate. meanwhile, the president and his allies are trying to bring oil drills into the arctic refuge, which would destroy one of the world's last great wild places. 'the legal battle to keep drilling out of the refuge will be one of the trump is also moving to ramp up logging of the tongass national forest, bringing roads into irreplaceable alaskan wilderness that stores more carbon per acre than any other forest in the united states. the tongass is home to wild pacific salmon, the alexander archipelago wolf, and many other species that will suffer under trump's plan. to stop the destruction, nrdc is joining with partners, including indigenous groups whose traditional ways of life depend on keeping the wilderness intact, that same resolve to protect our national treasures has kept us in the fight against the proposed pebble mine for more than a decade. the hard rock mine would produce an unfathomable volume of waste, all contained behind a dubious confinement dam on the edge of alaska's bristol bay. the project threatens the greatest wild sock eye salmon fishery in the world, the communities that depend on it) tens of thousands of jobs, and the bears, eagles, and wolves that call the region their home. but in june 2019, in response to the 'l"rump administration's attempts to intervene on behalf of the min e's backers, nrdc helped secure congressional oversight for bristol bay, putting a crucial brake on the government's efforts. an nrdc delegation also delivered a message of relentless opposition at the annual shareholder meeting of the mine's owner, canada's northern dynasty minerals. appearing at these meetings, usually bearing hundreds of thousands of petitions in opposition from our members and activists, is a practice that nrdc has maintained since 2010. as noted by joel reynolds, western director and a senior attorney in the nature program, this tactic ''has become an essential aspect of our advocacy with multinational corporations." for our alaskan partners and the people of bristol bay, he adds, "salmon is life, and they passionately convey their unshakable resolve never to allow a giant mine to risk their lives, identities, and likelihoods.'' at the latest northern dynasty meeting. nrdc's taryn kiekow heimer, who works to protect marine mammals from industrial threats, sat at a conference table beside lifelong subsistence fisherwoman gayla hoseth, second chief of the curyung tribe and director of natural resources for the bristol bay native association. hoseth spoke passionately about the unyielding opposition the project faces from people in the region. kiekow heimer argued that '"'the proposed pebble mine is the wrong mine in the wrong place" and pressed the corporation to abandon it. 'we will never relent in our fight to stop this terrible project," she told them. .. nrdc's tactics are working: investors have fled the project, scientists have spoken out about its risks, and our coalition with local partners has grown stronger. but there are no permanent victories in alaska. the fight is endless. jn the courts, on capitol hill, and in boardrooms where ecosystems are devalued and threatened communities ignored, we will continue to defend the alaskan wilderness on behalf of its people and wildlife. "we are not going away," said hoseth. "'we will continue to fight. this is our home. i live on my ancestral land and i will protect it." we will be behind her.