 when nrdc first started working in india a decade ago, you could fit all of the solar companies and financiers in one room. this past october, more than 10,000 people attended the second annual global re-invest conference outside new delhi, an event that showcased some of the hundreds of renewable energy companies that have since opened their doors in india. “the focus at the conference was not just on large-scale solar projects but also on off-grid distributed energy projects, which india needs,” says madhura joshi, a delhi-based clean energy consultant with nrdc’s india program. after all, with nearly 240 million indians lacking reliable electricity, the country’s leaders are striving to deliver power to those underserved markets. india—the world’s third-largest emitter of greenhouse gases—aims to both bring people out of poverty and meet its paris agreement targets, a critical goal for nrdc and our partners. that includes generating 40 percent of its electricity from sources other than fossil fuels by 2030, which india is well on its way to achieving. “as india works to fulfill its climate pledges, it continues to show the world that com- bating climate change is compatible with rapid economic growth and rising standards of living,” says anjali jaiswal, senior director of the india program. the push for clean energy hasn’t been the only focus for the india program since nrdc began work there in 2008. it is also partnering with local groups to address india’s mounting toxic air pollution problem, a public health challenge inextricably linked to climate change. “we’re studying and addressing heart disease, asthma, cancer risk, and stroke, among many other health effects,” says vijay limaye, a climate change and health science fellow at nrdc. recently, nrdc and partners released the updated air information and response (air) plan, originally launched in 2017 with officials in ahmedabad, the largest city in the western state of gujarat. nrdc worked with the group to put in place a health-based air-quality index warning system and improve health risk communications to inform citizens about unsafe pollution levels, with a focus on protecting children’s lives. the air plan was one of many initiatives showcased at an affiliate event highlighting climate actions in india last september at the global climate action summit in san francisco. nrdc public health experts, including senior scientist kim knowlton, also highlighted the pioneering heat action plan implemented in ahmedabad, a program that has helped to avoid more than 1,100 deaths annually since its launch in 2013 and has since scaled to 30 cities across 12 indian states. the plan uses low-cost measures such as cool roofs (coated to be more reflective and absorb less heat) and a color-coded early-warning system in which forecast temperatures are printed in newspapers and posted on social media to improve public preparedness. “just as the major environ- mental problems are linked, so are the solutions,” knowlton says. with south asia facing increasingly brutal heat waves, building heat resilience has become another priority for its leaders, particularly those who rep- resent india’s most vulnerable communities that have compounding risk factors, such as a lack of electricity or limited access to water. “india is show- ing the world that in our fight against climate change, we can take smart steps right now to protect millions of people from deadly heat waves,” says sayantan sarkar, a delhi-based climate consultant with nrdc, “and it’s cost effective and sensible to create similar plans across indian cities and states.” as nrdc works with city officials as well as health-care workers, emergency responders, and the indian meteorological department to expand heat action plans to all 17 heat-prone states in india, the lessons learned—and partnerships built—can serve as a template for other cities, states, and countries working to address the growing burdens of air pollution and climate change on their citizens’ lives. “there’s tons of work to be done in india, but in 10 years, nrdc has seen significant progress,” says poonam sandhu, a clean energy and climate consultant with the program. “we hope to work with our partners to make this vibrant country become a climate leader.”