 conserving the crown of the continent, the conservancy’s montana chapter and canada program worked in partnership with the nature conservancy of canada to halt the threat of mining in the pristine lands that border the north fork of the flathead river. the partnership enabled the two countries to add another 389,000 protected acres to the magnifi cent crown of the continent. new chilean national park. the conservancy donated 24,000 acres of native forest of its valdivian coastal reserve in southern chile for the creation of the alerce coastal national park, which protects 61,000 acres of some of the world’s last temperate rainforests, including alerce trees thousands of years old. protected panther pathway. the conservancy orchestrated a complicated land transaction in florida, raised $2 million toward the purchase and brought federal and state partners together to acquire 1,278 acres critical to the future of the endangered florida panther. missouri prairie restorations. american bison set foot on dunn ranch prairie for the fi rst time since the 1840s, and plans are in place to restore topeka shiner to prairie streams. at wah’kon-tah prairie, the american burying beetle became the fi rst federally endangered species to be reintroduced in missouri, and 62 prairie chickens were released to reestablish the critically endangered bird. federal forest program. the conservancy led the charge for full support of the collaborative forest landscape restoration program, one of the few forest service programs to receive increased investment in the fi scal 2012 budget. part of it was due to a comprehensive report we produced late last year. 3 mongolian grassland reserves. mongolia’s parliament announced more than 3,700,000 acres of new national protected lands. nearly a quarter of these are grassland reserves identifi ed as ecologically important in a scientifi c assessment conducted by the conservancy. whooping crane properties. habitat for rare whooping cranes was protected when the conservancy worked with partners and private landowners to protect three critical properties on the texas gulf coast where the iconic birds spend their winters. largest australian protected area. the conservancy worked with indigenous traditional owners, the central land council and the national government to support the declaration of the largest protected area on australian land. the southern tanami indigenous protected area, located in the northern territory, spans an astounding 25 million acres. moosehead lake forest easement. a partnership among the conservancy, plum creek and the forest society of maine secured a 363,000-acre easement—the second largest in u.s. history—in maine’s moosehead lake region, filling a missing piece that connects more than 2 million acres from the st. john river headwaters to mount katahdin. great lakes restorations. three states are working together with farmers to restore the western lake erie basin to reduce runoff into critical aquatic systems. and a conservancy-led project demonstrating sustainable forestry in michigan’s two hearted river watershed is helping to reboot the forest’s natural diversity while providing much-needed income to the local economy.