 every successful company needs a compelling vision, one that drives its workforce and inspires its customers and investors. the same is true for any successful charitable organization. the nature conservancy’s vision is clear and inspirational: to create a sustainable planet. as a business leader, i came to the conservancy because i saw an organization that was bold enough to take the pragmatic risks necessary to challenge itself and the world to do more than what may seem possible. to double the amount of conservation in the coming decade than was accomplished in the last century is a bold goal indeed. but the pace of habitat loss, climate change and other serious threats demands nothing less of us. i believe that the conservancy is the only organization that is positioned to marshal the resources and partnerships to take on this challenge. the accomplishments of the past year hint at what is possible when we think big. with record-setting revenues, the conservancy helped china create its first national park and brokered the largest debt-for-nature swap in costa rica. we secured financing to help protect a healthy future for 21 million acres of the great bear rainforest in british columbia, and helped world leaders develop a cutting-edge initiative to address carbon emissions from deforestation. in late 2007, we launched the campaign for a sustainable planet to support our bold conservation goal. the campaign will be the largest in conservation history; i contend it will be the most important conservation action of our generation. it will support the expansion and launch of programs and projects that will enable us to achieve results on a global scale. the expanded use of innovative strategies—such as payments for ecosystem services and the development of markets for carbon stored in forests—that the goal calls for has the power to transform how we use our planet’s natural resources. the board of directors is deeply committed to the goal and stands ready to lead the conservancy through this historic campaign. our direction is set, and our resolve is strong. early outreach shows that our enthusiasm is shared by many people who are eager to support action on a scale that can truly make a difference in their lives, and in the lives of their children and grandchildren. this is a watershed moment for global conservation, and what we do in the next few years will shape our world for generations to come. i hope you will join us in this extraordinary quest to make the nature conservancy’s vision a reality.