 nearly a century before the novel coronavirus emerged from a wildlife market in wuhan, china, a novel h1n1 virus swept the globe. that virus, commonly known as the spanish flu or 1918 influenza, infected more than one-third of the world's human population. it is suspected to have originated in the united states, most likely from birds. indeed, more than 60 percent of emerging infectious diseases originate in animals, and most of those from wild animals. still, the world continues to eat, use, and trade wildlife, as well as encroach upon their habitats, in ways that make the spread of viruses like covid-19 far more likely. nrdc's nature program is working to help shape domestic policy on wildlife trade, as well as advocating through international treaties, to end nearly all commercial wildlife trade. the bottom line is that wildlife trade is a threat to our public health that only stands to become greater as humans increasingly exploit species and encroach upon previously untouched habitat," says elly pepper, nroo's deputy director of international wildlife conservation. and with many global leaders focusing on how to avoid future outbreaks, nrdc is calling on them to move forward with a response commensurate with the threat. in china, nrdc experts were invited to provide the country's national forestry and grassland administration with formal recommendations for amending its wildlife protection law, which the government decided to review and modify in response to covid-19. that law dictates which wild species are deemed protected and which ones chinese residents can eat, own, sell, wear, farm, or hunt. nrdc also offered the government other policy suggestions on how to reduce the risk of future outbreaks. as part of these recommendations, beijing-based nrdc policy analyst ning (lisa) hua and her colleagues proposed that china eliminate a list of more than 100 birds, mammals, amphibians, and insects that can be sold for things like food, medicine, pets, or pelts under the law. many of the species on that list are not only potential vectors of disease but also face extinction, such as the spoon-billed sandpiper, the yellow-breasted bunting, and the elongated tortoise. the nrdc team recommended these species instead be categorized as protected under the law. for some of the species, their population might still be big now, but if commercial use is always allowed or the species isn't protected under the law, as time goes by, they may become endangered," hua says. the nrdc wildlife conservation team's recommendations also included increased interagency management and enforcement coordination at both the national and provincial levels, and more public participation during decision-making processes. the issue of risky wildlife trade-both legal and illegal-extends well beyond china's borders. countries like the united states, france, and italy remain some of the world's largest consumers of wildlife as food, pets, trophies, fur, and medicine. to me, that means the united states as an obligation," says zak smith, director of international wildlife conservation at nrdc. ''if we want to avoid the cost of a future pandemic, then part of that is clamping down on wildlife trade and being willing to invest in that. i can guarantee it's going to be cheaper than what we are going through." in may, nrdc ano the center for biological diversity released an action plan recommending that the federal government immediately ban imports and exports of all live wildlife, permanently close domestic live-wildlife markets, direct increased funds to the u.s. fish & wildlife service and other u.s. agencies, and strengthen the convention on international trade in endangered species (cites) to prevent future zoonotic pandemics. the message has resonated with some members of congress, including senators john cornyn and cory booker, who recently crafted the bipartisan preventing future pandemics act (pfpa). the bill, which would prohibit the import export, purchase, or sale of live wild animals for food or medicine, has yet to be heard in committee, but advocates are hopeful that it will advance under the new administration. "'considering that the united stat.es imports well over 200,000 live mammals and birds every year-and is one of the world's top importers of live wildlife-the pfpa is an important start" pepper says. "'with the risk of future zoonotic pandemics increasing and scientists predicting that one million species stand to go extinct, it's critical we pass legislation to address these threats." habitat conservation is another critical defense against the unprecedented levels of human- wildlife and wildlife wildlife interactions spreading disease, fueled by harmful activities such as clearing intact ecosystems for industrial uses. alongside scientists, indigenous groups, and partner organizations, nrdc is campaigning to conserve 30 percent of the world's lands and oceans by 2030-an urgent goal that president biden recognized through a pledge made in january 2021 as part of an array of environmentally focused executive orders. the stakes are high: thriving ecosystems, filled with abundant wildlife, are the foundation for human life as we know it. 'l'his natural life support system cleans our ai.r and ·water, supports the pollinators and seafood that put food on our tables, and sequesters the carbon that's driving climate change. if there's ever been a time to radically renegotiate our relationship to the natural world, it is now.