 straddling the equator and situated on the atlantic coast of africa, gabon’s tropical rainforest—the kind that teems with elephants, gorillas and chimpanzees—covers more than three-quarters of the nation, and this landscape is bathed by a network of life-sustaining rivers, most of which remain untamed. gabon finds itself at a crucial crossroad. this small country that is both wild and striving for modernity has all the elements to become a showcase of what “green growth” really is. jean-hervé mve beh is a research associate with gabon’s national research center, working with the nature conservancy to do key research on gabon’s rivers: “rivers are special to me because that is where it becomes clear that water is life. now there is greater awareness of the need to understand the impact of human activities on natural habitats. that recognition is global, but also local here in our small country of gabon—heavily forested, but also with lots of freshwater and marine habitats. “why do this? let me tell you about a place that is emblematic of what can go wrong. our rivers are a major food source for our people. there is a manganese mine in the southeast of the country that was very poorly managed for 40 years. there, the river near it is completely dead. people realized the connection and said clearly this is not something we want in our country. that’s what can happen if you just cruise ahead, if you don’t have an understanding of what might happen. “we are working now to establish a baseline of the sites proposed for hydropower. we know there is richness of habitat, but the knowledge of it is relatively poor. gabon is trying to make the case for conservation to show the world this face of caring for nature and being more environmentally minded. people are watching what we do. we have to say it but show it, too.” mapping research and resources to inform decision-makers scientific expeditions, led by the nature conservancy with gabon’s national research center from 2014 forward, gathered data from rivers that crisscross the nation’s rainforest to ascertain aquatic diversity and how hydropower dams and other development might impact those species. the government of gabon is eager to tap the potential of hydro power for industrialization and economic diversification and to lessen dependence on fossil fuels. wisely, the government wants to develop as sustainably as possible, and welcomes scientific information to help it make the best decisions. the maps here represent just three examples of how the consolidation of existing data augmented by fieldwork from these expeditions can be presented visually to make it easily understood. the top map illustrates the river ecosystem types that exist across the nation. the middle map shows how known populations of fish species that are unique to gabon are distributed, but many areas still remain uncharted. the bottom map indicates current dams, sites being assessed and potential sites in the future with proximity to national parks, major wetlands and other areas of concern. data sets can overlay in various ways to also help inform forestry, extractive industries and other interests with potential to affect gabon’s natural diversity and the welfare of its people. the future gabon’s conservation commitment is clearly demonstrated by the designation of over 10 percent of the country as national parks, and a similar proportion as ramsar sites, a designation for wetlands of international importance. but ramsar sites in the country have lacked the needed support to see them valued and effectively managed. together with government agencies, tnc brings its expertise to strengthen protected-area stewardship, promote best management practices that reduce impacts on water quality stemming from industrial development within critical areas of the river basins, and promote community stewardship of the valued resources. under the “emerging gabon” vision, gabon’s future economic development is based in large part on harnessing its hydropower potential. with this in mind, tnc is proposing the application of a pragmatic approach called hydropower by design, which plans for appropriate location and design of future dams in order to secure desired energy output with the least environmental impact possible. this approach is complemented by an ecosystem services valuation framework to ensure that future development accounts for the benefits provided to people and economic activities by healthy, functional ecosystems.