 when a country of 1.3 billion commits to moving away from dirty fuels, the impacts of its efforts ripple across the globe. but the work of fighting climate change, while simultaneously “building out an economy, increasing prosperity, and bringing millions of people out of poverty,” says anjali jaiswal, director of nrdc’s india initiative, “isn’t easy.” jaiswal has been leading nrdc’s india initiative since its founding in 2009. her team of seven has worked with partners to launch several projects that address the country’s public health, energy, and climate challenges. one focus is to strengthen climate resilience among some of india’s most vulnerable populations, such as slum communities, outdoor workers, pregnant women, and children. problems in the country loom large—200 million indians don’t have reliable electricity, and the devastating effects of climate change are already wreaking havoc across the country. the key, jaiswal says, has been to focus on building relationships and creating realistic, human centered, scalable solutions. for example, jaiswal worked with local partners, including the self employed women’s association, on an innovative finance model to help nearly 43,000 salt pan farmers in india’s remote, scorching desert of gujarat gain access to clean energy and improved living conditions. with their guidance, many farmers have replaced expensive diesel-powered pumps and generators with solar panels, enabling them to save money while also supporting a more sustainable future. some farmers are now able to send their children to school for the first time as a result of their savings. in the two years since the project began, jaiswal has seen nearly 500 solar installations crop up across the salt flats. jaiswal is proud to play a part in india’s transition toward a clean energy future. “when we started in india, the country was producing 17 megawatts of solar energy. that’s very little,” she says. “we’re talking gigawatts in terms of amounts now.” one gigawatt of energy can power 544,000 indian homes a year. over the past three years, india quadrupled its solar capacity to 12 gigawatts, and it was on track to add another 10 by the end of 2017. the country is also ramping up wind energy production as part of its ambitious commitment to renewable energy. these efforts will be central to helping india reach its paris climate agreement goal of cutting greenhouse gas emissions by 33 to 35 percent of 2005 levels by 2030. “paris showed us that we can develop an international structure that works for countries around the world—not just rich countries,” jaiswal says. “in order for it to work, it has to be designed for everyone.”