 india has emerged as one of the fastest-growing economies in the world today and is experiencing the most rapid urbanization in history. by 2030, more than 600 million people will be living in indian cities, and the country is gearing up to build infrastructure to support this migration. many ecologically sensitive regions stand to be adversely affected by an unplanned piecemeal approach to urbanization. india ranks among the top 10 countries in the world with the highest forest cover, and supports globally important biological hot spots such as the himalayas and western ghats. therefore, india’s efforts to develop without destruction will have significant and lasting impacts on global biodiversity, as well as on the livability of future cities and human health. the nature conservancy is advancing the model of urban greenprinting in several cities around the world, which will demonstrate how nature-based solutions can improve living conditions and provide ecological benefits to citizens. we are collaborating with key stakeholders to produce an urban greenprint for the south indian city of coimbatore, which lies amid a global biodiversity hot spot—the western ghats. coimbatore’s development will set a precedent for the 25-plus small towns surrounding it, thus affecting a biologically rich region of global significance. the urban greenprint will focus on: reviving coimbatore’s lakes to improve groundwater recharge, water quality and sanitation, as well as improving biodiversity habitats for birds and aquatic species, aquifer recharge and positively affecting the region’s hydrology. increasing green cover through strategic tree planta - tions to improve air quality, control temperatures and reduce carbon emissions. build natural infrastructure to improve connectivity between forests and facilitate safe movement of wildlife, particularly elephants, thereby reducing conflict. in the coming years, india will invest heavily in chasing an ambitious development agenda. our aim is to demonstrate success and work toward integrating such solutions in the government’s urban-planning initiatives to help build healthy, safe, resilient and sustainable cities for people and nature.