 it’s been a roller-coaster year for bombus affinis, aka the rusty patched bumblebee. on march 21, this small and mighty pollinator became the first-ever bumblebee species to receive endangered species act protections. and with no time to waste. the bee has lost 90 percent of its habitat in the past 20 years and has seen its populations decline by 87 percent since the late 1990s. but adding to the bee’s troubled fate, the trump team made a decision shortly after taking office to freeze the endangered species listing—part of the administration’s “immediate regulatory freeze.” knowing this move was illegal and that it would almost certainly spell extinction for the rusty patched bumblebee, nrdc filed suit. and, thanks in no small part to the 130,000 people who petitioned the u.s. fish and wildlife service (fws), we won one of our first victories against the environmentally destructive policies of the trump administration. it was a small but important step in the fight to protect native bees—essential species to our food security and the health of our ecosystems— and a move that helped lay the groundwork to protect endangered bees and butterflies across 28 states from the soaring use of neonic pesticides that are killing pollinators. the numbers speak for themselves—some 33 percent of honeybee colonies collapsed between april 2016 and march 2017. with the chemical industry’s growing influence on the u.s. environmental protection agency’s (epa) agenda—several former industry executives now directly oversee the agency’s toxics office—the problem has grown only worse. by continuing to allow products containing toxic chemicals to enter the market and failing to consult with fws on the insecticides’ impact on threatened or endangered species, the epa is violating the federal endangered species act. in response, nrdc filed a second pollinatortargeted federal lawsuit in october seeking to cancel the registrations of nearly 100 products containing three widely used neonic pesticides— acetamiprid, dinotefuran, and imidacloprid— until the epa complies with the law. “the epa ignored endangered bees, butterflies, and birds when it approved the widespread use of neonics,” says rebecca riley, a senior attorney in nrdc’s nature program. “massive pollinator die-offs across the country show that these pesticides cause serious harm.” twenty-six species listed under the endangered species act are at risk from neonic pesticides; in addition to the rusty patched bumblebee, they include the karner blue butterfly, hines’ emerald dragonfly, black-capped vireo, and pallid sturgeon, as well as the federally threatened vernal pool fairy shrimp. nrdc is urging swift action from the epa, with added pressure from our three million members and activists. “it’s time for the agency to do its job and make sure our most vulnerable species are protected from the products it approves,” riley says.