 two years ago, president obama said he would release new fuel efficiency standards in 2011. nrdc wanted these standards to generate transformative change, not incremental improvement. we knew america could build better cars. and we knew we had to in order to slash dangerous pollution, confront climate change, and reduce dependence on foreign oil. nrdc launched the go 60 campaign to build support for bold action. our experts negotiated with the administration and automakers to craft ambitious standards. at the same time, we blasted the benefits of clean car standards to key audiences, including labor unions, car manufacturing states, auto shows, car bloggers, and national press outlets. our strategy worked. in july 2011, president obama proposed raising fuel economy standards to 54.5 miles per gallon, more than double the current average. within 20 years, these standards will save drivers more than $80 billion a year at the pump and cut vehicle carbon pollution in half compared to today. we deployed a similar approach when the environmental protection agency said it would release the first-ever national standards to limit mercury from power plants. our experts fought for the toughest standards while our advocates built support among medical groups and concerned parents. in december, the epa released a standard what will save thousands of lives and prevent more than 100,000 heart and asthma attacks every year. this was another great victory for nrdc and our allies. once again we demonstrated the power of joining policy expertise and citizen support. we need this potent combination now more than ever: we are witnessing the most coordinated attack on the environment in four decades. the house of representatives voted more than 190 times this year to block environmental and public health protections. deep-pocketed polluters have used their influence to disparage the clean energy transformation. and gop candidates for president have made climate denial a requirement for the position. nrdc has prevailed in difficult times before—from the mideast oil crisis to the gingrich revolution and beyond— and we did it by adapting and innovating. as we face another pivotal moment, nrdc has identified bold new strategies to achieve far-reaching success. we will build greater political influence to support elected officials who safeguard the environment and to challenge those who do not. we will use targeted communications to connect environmental issues with the basic concerns of american families, especially their health, their homes, and the air they breathe. and we will reach out to strategic partners, including those in the business community who create prosperity and protect the environment at the same time. these strategies will help us galvanize an army of people demanding environmental protections. together with the expertise of our staff, the dedication of our board of trustees, and the passion of our members, our energized supporters will help us promote innovation above pollution, conservation over destruction, and a clean future instead of the dirty past.