 our world is seeing a revolution in the ways great companies deliver traditional services and products. former startups like lyft, airbnb and spotify have harnessed technology to rapidly create entirely new markets or disrupt existing ones. imagine if we could apply this model to save the planet. that’s the motto of techstars, a colorado-based firm dedicated to developing and capitalizing promising technology startup businesses. this year techstars teamed up with the nature conservancy for a first- of-its kind partnership to identify entrepreneurs with commercially viable technologies to solve the greatest challenges facing nature and people. with the world’s population projected to grow to 10 billion people by 2050, entrepreneurs in the techstars sustainability accelerator will be challenged to refine technology that can be rapidly scaled to help provide food and water sustainably and tackle climate change. over the next three years, tnc and techstars will accelerate 30 such potential ventures that promise to serve the partners' highest conservation priorities. a rigorous three-month residency includes intensive collaboration and mentoring with leaders in science, business, finance and other disciplines, resulting in a “demo day” to showcase their technologies to potential investors for subsequent funding rounds. white boards captured the evolving concepts of these ambitious altruists as they dug-in with those who helped inform their thinking and refine their strategies. stormsensor is creating the world’s first smart urban watersheds by providing customers with the information they need to identify, track, predict and prevent pollution and flooding in real time. flywire’s patented video technology provides fishers and managers with the tools they need to effectively assess and certify their fisheries are operating sustainably. thisfish is a global provider of seafood traceability software that improves efficiency and increases trust and transparency in seafood supply chains. lotic labs is an environmental data science platform to drive the water sector to become more sustainable in the face of climate change and weather volatility.