 has the conversation around energy efficiency changed in the golden state since you helped develop the california energy efficiency coordinating committee in 2014? lara ettenson: for a long time, the main reason for focusing on energy efficiency was energy savings—to reduce air pollution and to stop the construction of new power plants. but we recognize that efficiency programs, like reducing the cost of an efficient refrigerator, also have an impact on people’s comfort and pocketbooks—especially in california, where we have an affordability crisis. now we’re also focused on making sure that no community lacks the incentives, understanding, or opportunities to upgrade their homes and small businesses and lower their energy bills. our committee is coordinating among 20 diverse groups, including consumer advocates, labor interests, social justice organizations, local governments, and the state energy agencies to ensure efficiency access for everyone. what has the committee been tackling lately? in 2018, the california public utilities commission approved the first-ever set of business plans that manage the majority of the state’s energy efficiency programs and required mini- mum quality installation standards. in addition to meeting energy-savings goals, programs must be designed to serve customers living in disadvantaged communities. these decisions set the groundwork for california to equitably transition to a clean energy economy. california consistently made headlines in 2018 for picking up the federal government’s slack when it came to climate change. what was the significance of two of its biggest wins: a 100 percent zero greenhouse gas electricity bill and legislation related to the closure of the diablo canyon nuclear power plant? these bills, sb 100 and sb 1090, which nrdc advocated for, commit the state to fully eliminating carbon pollution from electricity generation before the middle of the century. this becomes critical as we continue to electrify things like our cars and heaters. moving away from a direct reliance on oil and gas puts pressure on the electric grid. we want to make sure it’s clean and using smart technologies to be reliable. likewise, when diablo canyon—california’s last nuclear power plant—closes in 2025, we can rest assured that low- cost, zero-carbon energy will be picking up the slack, rather than dirty energy that would ultimately increase emissions. we also made sure that the people being affected by these policies were ensured a transition into the new, sustainable economy, for example, through provisions funding worker retention and mitigating community impacts. what can these policies teach others looking to transition to a carbon-free energy economy? in many ways, the state is a microcosm for the entire world, given its size (almost 40 million people live here), economy, and diversity. any state or nation will be able to look to california as a model. while there are still unknowns about making these goals a reality, california lawmakers are committing their state to finding answers and implementing affordable clean energy solutions—in recognition that the stakes of delaying innovation are too high.