 at the nature conservancy we celebrate the past, but we always have our eye on the future. it’s vital to our success that we learn from past experience and advance innovations from past achievements. that practice began in 1954, when our emerging mission led our founders to help rescue an old-growth hemlock forest along the mianus river in new york. their innovative solution—to creatively finance the purchase of the forest for preservation, thereby saving it from imminent subdivision—helped inspire a land trust movement that spread across the united states and continues to inspire today in asia, australia, latin america and africa. the world seemed a simpler place back in 1954. it’s astounding how the world has changed since then. over the decades, our mission repeatedly called, and the conservancy has consistently answered. for more than 60 years, we have stepped up to the challenges—documenting biodiversity across the united states, swapping debt in the developing world for conservation action, strengthening national park systems throughout latin america, enabling island nations to create marine protected areas, supporting indigenous communities to con- trol the destiny of their traditional lands and water, and inspiring chinese partners to pursue interna- tional models of environmental protection as their nation emerged from decades of isolation. and we are currently championing impact investing to expand the ways people can put their capital to good use for nature. but now our world is at a critical juncture. we know that the past scope, scale and pace of our conservation will be insufficient in a world with more than 9 billion people in 2050. in the light of that future, we are transforming the conservancy to become a leading force to confront the challenges that nature and people will face in the coming decades. five years ago we engaged the whole conservancy team to reimagine our global conservation agenda— to carefully consider what is needed and what we can best do to safeguard our lands, water, oceans, climate and, now, cities—a needed addition to the conservation landscape, since we are in the midst of the largest migration of people to urban centers in human history. what emerged is the need to continue to protect nature—but now at an unprecedented scope, scale and pace. protection alone won’t be enough, however; we must simultaneously transform how we use na- ture, so that humanity’s need for food and energy will deplete neither nature’s resources nor the diversity of life on earth. and we must inspire people and our institutions to value and invest in nature and establish policies—locally, regionally, nationally and globally— that codify conservation as a common human value. to empower and enable the conservancy and our partners around the world to put these principles into action, our scientists revised conservation by design, our strategic framework for mission success. for two decades, conservation by design guided conservation practitioners with “a common set of analytical methods to identify the biodiversity that needs to be conserved, to decide where and how to conserve it, and to measure our effectiveness.” the revised framework now embraces the well-being of people and the replicability of our work as primary planning elements, so that conservation in one place will fuel action around the world. but working faster and at an expanded scope and scale also requires smarter, integrated systems and policies that transfer knowledge efficiently. and recognizing that our greatest asset is the people. who work here and make conservation a reality, we also implemented a complementary organization by design initiative that is investing in a dramatic upgrade of our ability to communicate and transfer information quickly worldwide and to ensure that we have the diverse workforce and inclusive leadership reflective of the places and cultures we serve. safeguarding the future of our natural world is a daunting task. our mission is calling us again, and this time the stakes are much higher than the survival of a hemlock forest in new york. but as in the past, we face this challenge with the pragmatic optimism that defines us as an organization and resides within us as individuals. what follows is a look at our past, present and fu- ture. the values that emerged at mianus river still drive us today. the five global strategies and suite of projects highlighted in the following pages, encompassing lands, water, oceans, climate and cities, all evolved from what we have learned over the past 60 years. what’s different now is that these strategies are bigger, are more complex, and—most important— are informing and being informed by similar efforts around the world. with your continuing support, that’s how we will win the future of our world.