 a filter for river and gulf atchafalaya river basin. louisiana’s atchafalaya river basin works like a set of kidneys for the mississippi river, filtering millions of gallons of water from the mississippi before it reaches the gulf of mexico. the deep woods, fertile marshes and meandering waters of this million-acre floodplain are home to more than 300 species of wildlife—including the louisiana black bear, american alligator and more than 100 different aquatic species—as well as numerous native plants. the nature conservancy acquired 5,359 acres in this fertile basin, a hallmark first step of a long-term initiative to conserve and restore america’s great swamp forest. in addition to its native plants and wildlife, the basin is essential to local cajun communities who still live off the land and whose cultural identity is firmly grounded in a sense of place. winning in overtime. united states after months of uncertainty, the u.s. congress handed nature a win in overtime by reauthorizing the land and water conservation fund (lwcf). the program, which had been allowed to expire in october 2015 after 50 years of safeguarding lands and waters nationwide, was reauthorized in december for another three years. additionally, congress provided $450 million in funding for the program for the coming year. since its inception lwcf—a program that allocates royalty revenues paid by energy companies for offshore oil and gas drilling—has benefited all 50 u.s. states and 98 percent of u.s. counties since its inception, supporting the protection of more than 5 million acres of lands and more than 29,000 recreation facilities. to support the reauthorization of lwcf, the conservancy continued its decades-long tradition of working closely with local, state and national partners, and mobilizing supporters to appeal directly to members of congress. lwcf was a focus during the conservancy’s 2015 advocacy day, where trustees from around the country visited capitol hill to encourage support for this vital program that delivers important economic, recreational and natural-resource benefits to the american people. cultivating caribbean corals. caribbean. the conservancy and its partners built on previous success this year in growing and replanting corals throughout the caribbean. we established new coral nurseries in the british virgin islands, grenada and cuba, then led local trainings on how to monitor and maintain these nurseries to produce healthy corals. thousands of young corals already have been transplanted successfully onto nearby damaged reefs. additionally, we are working to identify corals with stronger genetic resistance to warmer temperatures, acidification and pollution. focusing restoration efforts on these species will give caribbean reefs the best chance of adapting to current and future effects of climate change. why do we need healthy coral reefs? not only do these unique habitats protect island coastlines from climate change impacts, but they also nurture young fish that will fill tomorrow’s nets and support the livelihoods—from fishers to dive guides— of many people throughout the caribbean. securing an indigenous homeland. northwest territories, canada. the people of canada’s lutsel k’e dene first nations are tied to their remote forest and tundra homeland in a way few of us can imagine. they believe the upper thelon river is “the place where god began,” the very spot where their people were created. in recent decades, an avalanche of diamond-mining claims and proposed new construction have threatened those lands. as the lutsel k’e have engaged in a more than 40-year process to protect their home by designating it a national park, the conservancy has supported those efforts by contributing state-of-the-art mapping, conservation planning and funding for local programs. the 14,000-square-kilometer thaidene nëné national park reserve is expected to be formally announced in 2017 in celebration of canada’s 150th birthday. planting healthy air united states from seattle to atlanta. american cities can improve their residents’ health by planting more street trees. new conservancy science demonstrates the potential for urban trees to remove air pollution and reduce temperatures. the analysis, available online at nature.org/ healthyair, offers a deep dive into the potential for trees to save lives and improve human health in 245 cities globally, including 27 in the u.s. while new york, philadelphia and chicago show particularly high potential, the data indicates that every city has neighborhoods where trees are an efficient and cost-effective solution. trees can reduce concentrations of fine particulate matter by a quarter and cool their immediate vicinity by as much as 4 degrees f. the study indicates that in major cities, a tree-planting investment of just $4 per resident could improve the health of tens of millions. over the next year, the healthy trees, healthy cities program will use these findings to determine the best places to plant trees in several u.s. cities though a partnership with the trust for public land.