 how bad is california's water situation? and, using an nrdc proposal, the state also and limit the use of thirsty turf. we're also california is suffering through the fourth year of just implemented the strongest standards in the working to dedicate some of the resulting water an epic and unprecedented drought-the worst country for water-efficient toilets, faucets, and savings to the replenishment of parched rivers in 1,200 years-and we don't know when it will urinals that will save californians more than 100 and streams so that california can maintain the end. unsustainable water demands are driving billion gallons of water annually. that's three bountiful fisheries and aquatic environments that fish and wildlife .species to the brink of extinction trees as much water as the entire city of san make the state such a special place. while also draining groundwater aquifers. even the francisco uses in a year. recent el nino rains won't make up for the loss. what progress have you seen already? this dire situation could be a preview of the new normal as climate change models predict more frequent and intense droughts for the arid west. how will nrdc help california in the long run? there is a lot of good news. we've already seen we're helping craft policies and regulations that some communities far exceed their conservation ensure the people, businesses, and ecosystems goals. water efficient products now dominate of california have a safe and sufficient supply of the shelves of local home improvement stores, how has nrdc helped the state respond? water. in cities and on farms, we're advocating and more and more households. are removing we've done a ton of eye-opening research. to for more efficient use of this precious resource. their lush green lawns or simply allowing them promote the solutions we know are well within nrdc is even helping to design the home of the to transition to "california gold." in southern reach, we released a report last year that outlined future through our 25x25 campaign. by 2025 our california, $350 million in turf replacement areas of untapped potential in california's goal is for residences to use 25 percent of the rebates were claimed in just a few short months. water supply and laid out a road map to drought water used in homes today. one of the most exciting things we've noticed resilience. an aggressive statewide investment to get there, we've been working to improve is how these water policies are now part of the in agricultural and urban efficiency, along with plumbing codes for new buildings so they waste mainstream conversation. even keeping up with efforts to capture stormwater runoff and to less water from day one. we've also teamed up tire kardashians had an episode where the family reuse water, would create a surprising amount of with developers and a few cities to make sun! excess water more than what all of california's new houses come with plumbing systems that cities use in one year. obviously, that would go a make it easier to capture gray water and reuse long way in a state prone to droughts, it in yards or toilet tanks. we want communities with nrdc's help, the slate ad.opu!d to be locally sustainable and resilient by emergency water conservation regulations to capturing more stormwater-which will also provide critical short term drought relief. these reduce pollution in our rivers and oceans-and measures require californians to reduce their by reusing wastewater wherever possible. we outdoor water use, instruct utilities to report should think of water the same way we think of data on water usage and enforcement efforts, a plastic bottle or an aluminum can. it should be and allow water suppliers to issue fines to water recycled, not used once and thrown away. waters, statewide, average urban water demand additionally, nroc helped shape california's has dropped 25 percent in just two years new model landscape ordinance, which will that's incredible. encourage more drought-tolerant native plant & discussed the appropriateness of their green landscaping in light of the drought.