 a delegation of ocean conservancy leaders joined representatives from 35 countries at the fourth our ocean conference, a global gathering hosted by the european union to announce new commitments to address the world’s most pressing ocean challenges, held in malta on october 4-5, 2017. including ocean conservancy’s commitment, more than 400 tangible commitments representing over $3 billion for the ocean — from participating nations, ngos, foundations, research institutes and international organizations — were announced during the two-day proceedings. these unprecedented outcomes demonstrate that working together around the globe, we can ensure a future for the ocean that is safe, secure, clean and healthy. each year since 2014, the our ocean conference, launched by former secretary of state john kerry with significant early input from ocean conservancy, has invited leaders from around the globe to come together and commit to changing behaviors and practices to foster ocean conservation. this year the conference focused on six areas of action — mirroring several of ocean conservancy’s programmatic priorities — including marine protected areas, climate change, sustainable fisheries, marine pollution, the blue economy and maritime security. with the ocean covering 71 percent of earth and many people around the globe relying upon it for water, food, climate, air and their livelihoods, it is clear that a global focus on the ocean is needed. this is particularly critical when human activity — from pollution, overexploitation, coastal degradation and climate change — has caused so much distress for the ocean. as karmenu vella, european commissioner for environment, maritime affairs and fisheries said, “forests are our planet’s green lung, but oceans are its blue heart. it is now up to all of us to keep this blue heart beating.” the ocean conservancy team was especially excited about two commitments that reflect longtime priorities for the organization: our launch of a new global initiative to address waste management in southeast asia, and new work by the international alliance to combat ocean acidification (the alliance) – of which ocean conservancy is a founding member. pepsico and plastic makers from the american chemistry council and the world plastics council. this impressive group will create a new funding mechanism to raise over $150 million over five years to improve waste collection, sorting and recycling markets in southeast asia. nearly half of the plastic that flows into the ocean every year — an estimated eight million metric tons — escapes from waste streams in just five rapidly developing economies in asia (indonesia, philippines, vietnam, thailand and china). the fund will be operated by closed loop partners, a firm that invests in companies, technology and recycling facilities. “this is a major breakthrough in the fight for trash free seas,” says susan ruffo, managing director of international initiatives at ocean conservancy. “our research has found that by improving waste management in southeast asian countries, we can cut the flow of plastic going into the ocean by half by 2025. this funding mechanism will take this goal from dream to reality, and support efforts by governments and local groups on the ground to improve their livelihoods and well-being while also improving ocean health.”