 the vital importance of our work in the arctic was underscored by the tragic events in the gulf of mexico. in the months prior to the deepwater horizon blowout, the minerals management service (mms) had approved plans by shell to conduct exploratory drilling in the chukchi sea. this remote and fragile environment is critically important to the subsistence way of life of arctic coastal communities, not well understood by scientists, undergoing rapid changes, and a treacherous place to attempt a spill response if one were necessary. the arctic is our planet’s air conditioner. it is a unique and wild place, and it is already feeling the impacts of climate change. the arctic is warming at twice the rate of the rest of the planet and will almost certainly be one of the first regions substantially impacted by ocean acidification. watching the bp disaster unfold, it was impossible not to think about what an oil blowout in the arctic would mean for our ocean and all who rely on it. ocean conservancy has called for a time-out on expanded industrial activity in the arctic until we know more about this critical ecosystem. we have focused on developing the science plans necessary to assess gaps, evaluate risks, and guide decisions, and we have focused on industry preparedness and safety—the ability to respond adequately to a spill in remote and ice-filled seas. our team met with some success in march, when the obama administration acknowledged the science limits, and announced a decision to defer new arctic lease sales. in the aftermath of the bp disaster, we met with additional success as the administration acknowledged the need for more information about oil spill risks and spill response capabilities and postponed exploration plans for existing leases. arctic: perseverance pays most recently, shell announced its plans to forgo drilling in the arctic this coming summer, and focus its efforts on the 2012 season. these critical decisions are the result of an exhaustive, multi-front effort, and a significant victory of ocean conservancy and our colleague organizations. at the same time, we have worked with lawmakers, the administration, and various commissions of inquiry to ensure that the systemic failures that led to the bp disaster are considered in the context of the arctic. the national commission on the bp deepwater horizon oil spill and offshore drilling, in particular, has carefully considered how the lessons of the gulf should be applied off alaska’s coast and made important recommendations for the future.