 this year, ocean conservancy celebrates 40 years of making the ocean matter. founded in the midst of the nascent environmental movement in 1972, ocean conservancy began as a small organization focused on securing grants for environmental educators. now we are recognized as a leader in empowering citizens to take action on behalf of the ocean. for 40 years, ocean conservancy has helped protect important marine habitat and wildlife through public engagement and the creation of underwater parks. we’ve worked to support sustainable fisheries and establish strong policies to ensure the health of the ocean’s valuable resources for generations to come. and throughout our history, we’ve found success by relying upon science to inform our work and partnering with unexpected allies ranging from fishing communities to major businesses. someone who can certainly tell that history is charlotte meyer, ocean conservancy’s director of gift planning, who has worked with the organization over the past three decades in a career she calls “hugely rewarding.” “the biggest change i’ve seen during the organization’s history is that we’ve moved from looking at specific problems and individual species to a more holistic view of how to better ocean ecosystems for wildlife and for people.” amplifying impact in its infancy, ocean conservancy launched a single program to protest commercial whaling, recruiting a large group of supporters and quickly becoming an effective voice for larger marine conservation goals. throughout the late 1970s and early 1980s, the organization expanded and was instrumental in protecting fur seals from over-hunting and in banning the international trade of sea turtles. building on a growing portfolio of marine work, ocean conservancy began efforts to help create national marine sanctuaries, eventually serving as the lead non-governmental organization in the designation of 10 of the 13 marine sanctuaries. the organization also began to develop policy at the grassroots level. in the early 1990s, ocean conservancy was one of the first organizations to address the need for better fisheries management and reduce the effects of bycatch. working with a coalition of environmental organizations, ocean conservancy won an important victory in 1996 when congress rewrote the magnuson-stevens fishery conservation and management act, changing the way fisheries are managed today. “ocean conservancy has become a trusted caretaker of the ocean’s future,” meyer says. “our constituency sees us as the organization that uses science to advocate for the ocean in a way that creates a much healthier future.” building on past successes when the explosion of bp’s deepwater horizon rig in 2010 generated the largest accidental marine oil discharge in history, ocean conservancy was well positioned to play a leading role in the assessment and restoration of damage. with more than 20 years of work supporting sustainable fisheries in the gulf of mexico, ocean conservancy had strong relationships in the region. in addition, our senior staff leveraged extensive expertise gained during the exxon valdez oil disaster two decades prior. thanks to your support, our work in the gulf continues today with efforts to advocate for science-based restoration plans that ensure the region’s full recovery. in 2011, ocean conservancy celebrated more than two and a half decades of beach cleanup work with the release of the 25th anniversary international coastal cleanup report. one of the hallmarks of our work, the international coastal cleanup has grown from 12 sites along the texas coast in 1989 to more than 6,000 sites in more than 100 countries this year. we couldn’t have done it without your help — or the help of the more than 8 million volunteers who have participated since the program’s inception. there is still much work to be done, and as we look to the next 40 years, ocean conservancy is poised to address new challenges. we are witnesses to a complex world, where we must engage competing ocean interests, restore important habitats and help existing ecosystems adapt to a changing environment if we hope to protect the planet’s valuable marine resources in the decades to come. “this organization has contributed enormously to the fate of the planet where the health of marine ecosystems is concerned,” meyer says. “and we will continue to be a major player in determining what kind of legacy we leave for future generations.”