 if i had to use only two words to define ocean conservancy’s focus in 2019, they would be these: climate change. the single greatest challenge facing our ocean is climate change. each new scientific assessment confirms that the pace and scale of climate change are even greater than scientists had thought. but the ocean is not just a casualty of climate change — it is also a critical part of the solution. the ocean protects the planet from rising temperatures through heat absorption and traps roughly 30 percent of human-caused co2 emissions. in 2019 ocean conservancy bolstered our climate policy initiative to bring the unifying power of the ocean to bear in calling for climate action while also expanding science and ocean-based solutions. we apply a climate lens across all our work — from ensuring sustainable fisheries management, protecting arctic seas for people and wildlife, fighting to eliminate the threats of plastics, and doing absolutely everything we do on behalf of the ocean. our cover story presents our exciting efforts around the recent super bowl in miami and our leader- ship of the global ghost gear initiative to remove dangerous “ghost nets” and derelict fishing gear from the ocean. you can read about just a few of our 2019 victories in the center section. behind the scenes, we mobilized our million-plus person network of advocates through action alerts, blogs and sign-on letters for congress while our international coastal cleanup army, one million plus, cleaned up shorelines and beaches around the world. but no matter what ocean conservancy accomplished in 2019, none of it would have been possible without you — our supporters, funders, partners. from signing petitions to contacting congressional representatives, removing trash from waterways to advocating for strong fisheries, your support has been critical. and, of course, your generous contributions have provided the “fuel” that keeps our ship afloat. ocean conservancy is more committed than ever before to bold and ambitious efforts to address climate change and all challenges facing our ocean. speaking for the board of directors, our ceo janis searles jones and all of ocean conservancy, thank you for supporting our critical work.