 like urban sprawl on land, marine and coastal sprawl places unprecedented demands on the ocean. the pressure to industrialize the ocean has increased as demand for both fossil fuels and renewable energy from ocean areas has risen sharply. we need law and order to balance and coordinate commercial and recreational activity while protecting ocean ecosystems. our policy achievements require clear, coordinated, and enforceable regulations. ocean conservancy is aggressively promoting sweeping policy reforms across the nation to bring order to how we manage and protect our marine ecosystems, marine wildlife, and ocean-dependent communities. massachusetts ocean act ocean conservancy and two conservation partners led a broad grassroots effort for passage of the historic massachusetts ocean act, a comprehensive ocean management plan for the bay state. after years in the works, the law was signed by governor deval patrick on may 28, 2008. it is the first such statute at the state level and is a framework for sensible management of the many competing demands upon massachusetts’s ocean resources. ocean conservancy will continue to keep a vigilant eye on implementation to ensure adherence to the letter and the spirit of the law. going national on the national level, we see substantial opportunities to build on the success of the massachusetts ocean act by applying the principles of ocean management at the federal level and in other regions. the many uses of the ocean—for example, energy production from wind, waves, and tides—are only going to grow, and wise management is essential to ensure that ecosystems remain healthy and that other human activities can continue. based on our success in 2008, ocean conservancy is taking up the cause of ensuring that any federal legislation that authorizes new uses of the ocean includes plans for smart growth and conservation of our natural resources. our philosophy is that we must protect whole ecosystems in order to maintain healthy, productive, and resilient conditions necessary for the environmental services required of the ocean. florida ocean coalition ocean conservancy joined several other leading conservation organizations to issue a survival strategy to cope with climate change damage to florida’s coastal and marine systems. the report, entitled “preparing for a sea change in florida,” was presented to florida governor charlie crist and his climate- energy action team. the coalition’s recommendations called upon florida, a state renowned for its ocean resources, to assume its rightful leadership role on the national level. recommendations also included specific steps to protect against stresses associated with climate change, like ocean acidification, rising sea levels, and extreme weather.