 in many places beneath the ocean’s surface, coral reefs teem with rainbows of tropical fish. whales gather to feed at the edges of submarine trenches deeper than the grand canyon. volcanic seamounts, covered in ancient colonies of sea sponges, rise thou- sands of feet from the ocean floor. lush kelp forests shelter sea otter mothers and pups. in other spots, however, the world’s special ocean places are overfished, overpolluted, and overexploited. they are also underprotected. ocean conservancy is leading the charge to protect and restore our most extraordinary ocean treasures. preserving such places will strengthen the ocean’s immune system, fortifying its ability to withstand environmental stresses like global climate disruption. ultimately, protecting the ocean will make the world a healthier, better place to live. marine life protection act in 2007 along the central coast of california, the first of several marine protected areas (mpas) were implemented under the state’s watershed marine life protection act. building on the momentum of seeing the first protections in place, in 2008 we quickly set about the next phase to bring similar mpas to southern california. ocean conservancy was a key leader in passage of the original law in 1999, and we have continued to use our conservation and policy expertise to ensure that the results on the water live up to the full spirit of the law. marine sanctuaries act reauthorization ocean conservancy played a strong advisory role in shaping the reauthorization of the national marine sanctuaries act, a law that shields many of america’s most treasured marine areas from harmful uses. president and ceo vikki spruill testified before congress in support of the reauthorization saying, “the national marine sanctuaries act is a cornerstone of ocean conservation. it is a critical instrument that allows us to create a healthier, more resilient ocean. and a healthier ocean means healthier people, because the ocean is earth’s life-support system.” mapping human impacts on the ocean ocean conservancy’s dr. dennis heinemann co-authored a peer- reviewed study published in the journal science. it was the first global-scale study of human influence on marine ecosystems and shows that more than 40 percent of the world’s ocean is heavily affected by human activity, and few areas, if any, remain untouched. in their recommendations, the study’s authors pointed to the need for more and stronger marine protected areas to counteract the problem. throughout its history, ocean conservancy has been highly respected for its scientific acumen and will continue to be a strong and vocal advocate for science- based solutions to the environmental challenges facing the ocean.