 a more favorable political climate and conservation victories aside, tremendous challenges lie ahead. ocean conservancy has only just begun its work in the arctic, our seas remain overfished, and other perpetual and oft-changing issues require our continued diligence. in 2010 and beyond, ocean conservancy will build on our successes and expand our influence when and where it’s environmentally warranted and strategically prudent. in particular, we will remain vigilant as the recommendations of the interagency ocean policy task force are implemented and an era of more effective and coordinated ocean governance is ushered in. surely, there are years of hard work ahead as the process of defining the who, what, and where of ocean uses is implemented. no one believes it will be easy, but we know it will be profoundly important. likewise, in coming years, ocean conservancy will continue ensuring that the mandates of the magnuson-stevens fishery conservation and management act are fully realized; not just in the gulf of mexico, where we have enjoyed considerable success on red snapper and other important species, but in other critical fishing regions across the nation as well. the end of overfishing must be the cornerstone in any effort to restore the ocean to health. of course, our unquestioned legacy in the elimination of marine debris will continue to grow. ocean conservancy is building out its expertise into a full-fledged marine debris program that focuses as much on prevention and stopping marine trash at its sources as it does on our role as the global leader in cleaning up trash that has made it into our ocean and waterways. lastly, we remain vigilant to any critical ocean conservation issues, like oil spills, that might arise in the future. the ocean remains far from healthy, and ocean conservancy is committed to working at the crossroads of science and policy in the interest of our one-and-only ocean. and that’s a position we cannot maintain without the support of our members, activists, volunteers, and partners who dream of a day when the ocean has been restored to the vitality it once knew. with your support and a great deal of hard work, that lofty goal will one day be ours ... and our children’s. we dream of a day when the ocean has been restored to the vitality it once knew.