 as the world continues to overfish the ocean, causing the supply of wild fish to wane dramatically, fish farming is likely to grow rapidly to meet our ever- increasing demand for seafood. already, nearly one-half of all seafood feeding the world is farmed. though still a nascent industry in the us, fish farming—sometimes known as “aquaculture”—will expand substantially in coming years. ocean fish farmers are expected to look farther out to sea for suitable waters in which to anchor their facilities. from pollution to parasites to disease, however, such operations are not without serious environmental consequences. anticipating the potential harm of expanding offshore fish farming, ocean conservancy acted decisively before the industry takes root. while not opposed to responsible development of the aquaculture industry, we became a leading and resolute voice in opposing any plans to allow fish farming in ocean waters under us jurisdiction unless the united states enacts a comprehensive and precautionary law to manage the industry’s growth and prevent environmental harm. our prescience and caution were warranted. in the fall, the us commerce department approved a misguided plan by regional fishery managers to allow open-ocean fish farms in the gulf of mexico. ultimately, the hasty actions of managers in this one region made the need for national standards all the more urgent. the director of ocean conservancy’s aquaculture program, dr. george leonard, was invited to speak before a key subcommittee of the house natural resources committee on the need for sound legislation, saying: “now is the time for strong leadership from congress on the future of open-ocean aquaculture in the united states. if congress fails to act, an unregulated industry is likely to develop, and the environmental consequences could be severe.” as the decade drew to a close, representatives in congress introduced the national sustainable offshore aquaculture act of 2009, the first step toward a comprehensive law.