 ocean conservancy knows how to handle presidential transitions. in our 49 years, we’ve witnessed 10 presidents and seen partisan leadership change hands seven times. each time we’ve been ready — generating our ocean agenda months before the january 20th inauguration. throughout these administrations, ocean conservancy has worked on both sides of the aisle, calling for decisions that bolster ocean health and defending against measures that can harm it. while changes in leadership abound, our mission on behalf of the ocean stays constant: creating science-based solutions for a healthy ocean and the wildlife and communities that depend upon it. both president biden and vice president harris have spoken of their commitment to re-establish the united ocean conservancy’s robust agenda for the biden administration states as a leader in the fight against climate change and to make changes that bolster the health of the planet. they have been out front about limiting offshore oil and gas development, investing in the expansion of offshore wind and other alternative energy sources and cutting back on emissions of greenhouse gases, including in the shipping sector — all important tenets of ocean conservancy’s ocean agenda. as the new administration moves ahead, we encourage them to focus on mitigating threats to our ocean by taking action on climate, reducing plastic pollution, protecting the arctic and more. climate: climate change is the greatest threat to our ocean, and we are at a pivotal time for action. we need swift, decisive policies that limit carbon emissions and support communities affected by sea level rise and increased storm events that plagued the country in 2020. ocean-climate impacts disproportionately harm communities of color, indigenous communities, poor communities and other historically underserved and underrepresented communities. the new administration needs to recognize these truths and prioritize solutions. we have every reason to believe president biden will do all he can to deliver on this issue. an editorial in the washington post (sunday, november 29) called him “the climate change president” and challenged him to immediate action, saying “the united states has squandered too much time.” ocean conservancy was particularly heartened when, among his first appointments, biden tapped former secretary of state john kerry to be “climate czar” as part of the white house’s national security council. we worked closely with secretary kerry when he launched the first our ocean conference in 2014 with over 90 nations attending and during his term as chair of the arctic council, the leading intergovernmental forum on arctic matters, comprised of the eight arctic nations. in kerry’s words in another washington post article (november 24, 2020): “the work we began with the paris agreement is far from done. i am returning to government to get america back on track to address the biggest challenge of this generation and those that will follow. the climate crisis demands nothing less than all hands on deck.” plastic pollution: each year, 11 million metric tons of plastics enter our ocean on top of the estimated 150 million tons that currently circulate in marine environments. recent science by ocean conservancy and our partners shows that