 most people know the super bowl as a one-day competition between the best teams in the national football league. for non-sports fans, the super bowl may be appreciated for clever commercials, the half-time show or classic game- time foods. but for the cities chosen to host the super bowl every year, it’s much larger than a one-time event. activities surrounding the game stretch for months and have a public- service component, as each host city chooses a “legacy” project that makes a lasting difference. “this year, the miami super bowl host committee picked the environment as their cause. ocean conservancy was thrilled to be selected as the first-ever ocean partner,” says michael farnham, ocean conservancy’s senior manager of communications and marketing. “the super bowl is the biggest single-day sporting platform in the world. it was a tremendous opportunity for us to raise awareness about our ocean.” ocean conservancy has been on the ground in the sunshine state for over three decades, working on issues ranging from gulf of mexico restoration to fisheries sustainability to trash free seas®. as a result, the yearlong partnership with the miami super bowl host committee’s ocean to everglades (o2e) environmental initiative was a natural fit. the partnership — which sponsored environmental events, education and sustainability efforts — comes at a critical time for miami and florida. communities along florida’s 8,436 miles of coastline and across the state are dealing with increased stress from harmful algal blooms, plastic pollution, ocean acidification, sea-level rise and other threats. for the environmental campaign around super bowl liv, ocean conservancy set a goal to remove and divert 54 tons of plastic and trash from florida’s coasts and waterways. in september, ocean conservancy announced the #supercleanupchallenge and launched a beach cleanup schedule for the 2019-20 nfl season, beginning with our annual international coastal cleanup (icc) on september 21. the tally of collected trash grew leading up to the playoffs and game day, with a trio of cleanups that rallied miami dolphins season ticket holders and staff in october. in november, ocean conservancy partnered with the lower keys guides association on a fishing tournament that included a boat-based cleanup to raise awareness about threats to the florida keys. and in january, ocean conservancy held a “super cleanup” a few days before the big game. ocean conservancy also worked with the host committee to reduce single-use plastic and encouraged corporate partners to join “team ocean” by taking sustainability measures. a group of nfl players wore special ocean conservancy cleats to games in early december, and then auctioned them off to benefit our ocean. the events culminated in super bowl week, when ocean conservancy hosted a booth at a bustling pop-up super bowl village that filled 15 blocks of downtown miami. “this was an opportunity for us to engage with a whole new audience on a massive scale,” says michael. “we were able to reach over one million people through our booth in just a week. our goal was to engage people with a message of ocean conservation so that when they left the super bowl, they were inspired to take action. this partnership will have a life that continues long after the game.” the global ghost gear initiative (gggi) is another partnership taken on by ocean conservancy in 2019 that will pay dividends for years to come. abandoned, lost or otherwise discarded fishing gear — known as ghost gear — is a widespread and deadly form of marine debris that can ensnare animals and fish long after the gear is forgotten. ghost gear also contributes greatly to the ocean plastic problem. recent studies suggest that up to 70 percent of floating macro-plastics in our ocean water column, if measured by weight, may be fishing related. beginning in 2019, ocean conservancy became the host organization of the gggi, the first global alliance of its kind dedicated to removing ghost gear in our ocean while preventing more from entering the ocean in the future. in november, marine experts and world leaders from around the world came together at the sixth annual our ocean conference in oslo, norway, to discuss some of the biggest threats facing our ocean. a number of exciting commitments were made to address ghost gear. for one, norway — one of the largest fishing nations in the european union — became the 15th government to officially join the initiative. “norway has already shown its eagerness to protect marine ecosystems through national laws dictating that anyone who loses gear or cuts it adrift is obliged to search for it and report it if it cannot be retrieved,” says ingrid giskes, the gggi’s director. “by joining the gggi, they committed to sharing their knowledge and resources while continuing to develop best practices for managing fishing gear.” the seafood businesses for ocean stewardship (seabos) initiative also announced it is joining the gggi. seabos represents 10 of the world’s largest seafood companies and is collectively the largest seafood industry group in the world. “while there are many entities that need to take action to solve the ghost gear problem, the seafood industry is a large piece of the puzzle,” says ingrid. “the sheer size of the global seafood industry, combined with the lifespan of plastic fishing gear, makes ghost gear a long-term threat. the commitment from seabos and more than 100 other entities in the initiative sends a strong message that we are determined to tackle the problem in an innovative, collaborative and tangible way.”