 at ocean conservancy, we recognize that it’s time for conservationists and the seafood industry to work together for a sustainable future. it’s in everyone’s best interest. that’s why we’re changing the rules. we’re putting pressure on our nation’s eight regional fishery management councils and holding them accountable for improving us fishing policies to ensure sustainable fisheries. we’re building new economic incentives that reward fishermen for innovative practices to protect ocean ecosystems. and we’re shaping a shared vision for retailers, restaurant chains, other seafood businesses, and individual seafood buyers in support of good fishing practices and management policies—so we never catch fish faster than they can reproduce and so all seafood is sustainable seafood. a vision shared nearly three years ago, over a dozen environmental non-governmental organizations began to develop a “common vision” for sustainable seafood. ocean conservancy led the call for engaging seafood buyers directly in improving fisheries— beyond identifying sustainable products and including seafood from fisheries that are not yet sustainable. we positioned ourselves as partners to businesses and conservationists alike and helped shape the realization that a shared vision was mutually beneficial. in 2008, the common vision took off and led to profound changes that are rippling throughout the sustainable seafood movement today. moving forward, ocean conservancy is reaching out to new constituencies throughout the seafood industry with the message that we can have seafood and healthy oceans when we work together to improve the practices and policies that lead to sustainability. farming fish fish farming, or aquaculture, now accounts for more than 40 percent of the world’s seafood consumption. at its best, farmed fish provides an affordable and sustainable alternative to seafood from overfished stocks. at its worst, aquaculture can severely harm the ocean. bolstered by our reputation earned when we were instrumental in shaping the nation’s first-ever fish farming laws in california, ocean conservancy has become a “go-to” conservation organization when capitol hill needs insight and advice on legislation that will guide how the industry evolves nationwide. in the gulf of mexico late in the year, as regional managers prepared to open the door to industry development before national standards could be passed, ocean conservancy’s work caused the council to postpone its vote— a big victory for regulation of fish farming. convening the roundtable ocean conservancy collaborated with two partners—the sustainable fisheries partnership and texas sea grant—to bring together fishermen, seafood buyers, and fishery experts to explore ways to make the gulf of mexico shrimp industry more sustainable. dubbed the “gulf of mexico shrimp fishery roundtable,” it is a program unlike any other in the industry. the roundtable will help shrimpers adopt win-win fishing technologies and techniques that reduce “bycatch” and the industry’s carbon footprint while lowering operational costs. ocean conservancy is now looking to use innovative public-private models, like the roundtable, to bring sustainability to troubled fisheries in other regions of the country. award season food & wine magazine singled out ocean conservancy for its “eco- ocean award.” we were one of just three nonprofits recognized for excellence in making sustainable seafood a reality. the magazine lauded ocean conservancy’s leadership in realizing “sweeping changes” in the gulf of mexico red snapper fishery. by lobbying government groups and bringing major seafood buyers like wal-mart and plitt company together in support of fishery management improvements, we are working to ensure that one day everyone enjoying gulf of mexico red snapper will be enjoying sustainable red snapper.