 for all ocean conservationists—for all americans, really—2010 will forever be the year of the bp deepwater horizon oil disaster. for years, ocean conservancy and others warned against expansion of industrial activities in the ocean because such activities are replete with risks. and the consequences can be devastating — as the world now knows because of this tragic event. while it was a human tragedy and ecological and economic disaster of the highest order, it was also a defining moment for the ocean, and a call to action for ocean conservancy. we have met that challenge head-on, helping the stricken watermen of the affected region as well as cherished and valuable habitat and wildlife. within days, ocean conservancy expanded its efforts in the gulf of mexico, building on our decades-long presence in the region to help ensure that relief reached affected communities, that a robust restoration effort became a national priority, and that a multi-faceted reform agenda emerged with the potential to fundamentally reshape how we manage and care for our ocean. at the same time, ocean conservancy never wavered on our existing commitments to the ocean. we celebrated our 25th international coastal cleanup, with volunteers around the world proving once again that we all have a role to play in protecting the health of our marine environment and inland waterways. we continued our work in the gulf of mexico to end overfishing (a goal made more challenging by impacts from the oil spill). we achieved major policy victories — chief among them president obama’s executive order establishing the nation’s first-ever comprehensive national ocean policy. in california, we secured approval of a network of marine protected areas in the highly contentious south coast region of the state. and in alaska we fought back successfully against approval of new offshore drilling in the fragile arctic seas. from fisheries to marine debris, national ocean policy to the bp disaster, 2010 was a defining moment for ocean conservancy. and in this moment, you, our committed members, have been nothing short of amazing, reaching out to us with generous offers of physical, financial, and moral support. thank you for your continued work for our ocean.