 a new year brings change, with resolutions made with best intentions and newly elected officials taking office across the country. it’s a time of change for ocean conservancy as well, with a new leader at the helm and excitement in the air for what lies ahead for us in 2013. ocean conservancy’s board and staff have hit the ground running this year, working to improve our nation’s fisheries, clean up our seas, and seek solutions to threats like ocean acidification and drilling in the fragile arctic waters. we pledge to redouble our efforts to foster new ideas and embrace an invigorated spirit to tackle the ocean’s biggest challenges with science-based solutions. ocean conservancy had a banner year in 2012. you helped us protect polar bears, seals and walruses by pushing for a timeout on oil and gas activity in the arctic. we completed the nation’s first statewide network of marine parks in california – truly a proud moment. and, with your support, we helped pass the restore act, which will direct much-needed funds toward restoring the marshes, fisheries and habitats of the gulf of mexico. we also mobilized volunteers all over the world to clean trash from our beaches and waterways and started a movement of people stopping ocean trash at the source. we launched our mobile app rippltm to help consumers make wise choices to reduce their trash impact, thereby diminishing the flow of trash into our ocean and waterways. despite these achievements, our work is far from done. the food, energy and resource demands of a rapidly growing population will place enormous demands on our ocean – demands which we absolutely must learn to manage sustainably. the ocean is at the center of the most important resource issues of our time – and ocean conservancy will need to be at the very center of this crucial debate. we are fortunate to lead a talented team to help shape our collective response to these press- ing ocean management needs, and we are confident that together, with your ongoing support, we will be able to continue our legacy of success for years to come. of course, it is your generosity that makes all of this work possible. thank you so much for your continuing commitment in our fight for a healthy, thriving ocean.