 advocated successfully for the passage of the restore act, which will direct fines from the 2010 bp deepwater horizon oil disaster to ecosystem restoration, long-term science and monitoring, and economic recovery in the gulf of mexico we know the culture and economy of the gulf depend on the health of the ecosystem, and that’s why we worked so hard to ensure the passage of the restore act, which will direct a large portion of the bp fine money toward restoration, science and monitoring efforts. by convening a range of partners, experts and regional stakeholders, we’ve also provided decision-makers with recommendations for restoration and science projects that reflect an integrated gulf-wide approach, including a plan to better protect sea turtle nesting areas. built on the international coastal cleanup, the world’s largest volunteer effort to rid our ocean and waterways of harmful debris, the trash free seas alliance® brings together industry, science and nonprofit leaders who share the common goal of a healthy ocean free of trash the alliance provides a forum in which to identify cross-sector solutions, to foster innovation and to encourage reinvention of products that may cause harm if they end up in the ocean. secured science-based annual catch limits for all u.s. fisheries, which will help wild fish populations recover from decades of overfishing at ocean conservancy, we know overfishing harms more than just fish; it harms the fishermen, coastal communities and ecosystems that depend on them. that’s why we’ve spent more than two decades supporting sustainable u.s. fisheries. in 2012, we took a major step toward protecting the future of fish by filing a lawsuit to prevent overfishing of two critically important species of deepwater grouper. and we’re continuing to work with fishermen to keep our nation’s fisheries laws strong to ensure ongoing success. helped advance funding for smart ocean planning millions of jobs and billions of dollars worth of commercial and recreational activity depend on a healthy ocean and coasts, but we’re facing a rising tide of competition for these valuable marine resources. ocean conservancy advocates for smart ocean-use planning strategies that help reduce conflict among ocean uses and with the environment — helping protect migration routes and breeding areas for sea turtles, whales and other wildlife. this year, ocean conservancy has been helping plan for the ocean of the future by working closely with stakeholders including ports, ocean exploration businesses, fishermen, the tourism industry and offshore renewable energy companies. advocated for a responsible approach to oil and gas leasing and exploration in our fragile arctic seas in the arctic, we’re dedicated to finding solutions that will help preserve this pristine ecosystem and enable whales, seals, seabirds and other ocean wildlife to thrive and coastal communities to maintain their subsistence way of life. we know from our experience in the gulf of mexico that more scientific analysis is needed to inform decisions about whether, where and how to drill, so we’ve called for a timeout on oil and gas activity in the beaufort and chukchi seas. launched our new mobile application, rippltm, which is creating a new solution to ocean trash by guiding users on how to reduce their waste we’ve started a year-round movement to stop pollution at the source with rippltm, a mobile application that helps you make simple, sustainable lifestyle choices for a trash-free ocean. worked to raise awareness of ocean acidification’s impacts on coastal communities, and opportunities for states to take action carbon dioxide emissions are being absorbed by the ocean, and as a result, the ocean’s chemistry is changing at an alarming rate. this change is damaging the basic building blocks of life needed by oysters, clams, corals and other animals to make their shells and skeletons. the impacts from ocean acidification are already being seen in the pacific northwest, where shellfish growers and their businesses have suffered from increasingly corrosive water. ocean conservancy spent 2012 working with partners across the united states to raise awareness of this threat to our coastal communities and the options that exist for states to take action. stewarded adoption of the nation’s first statewide network of underwater parks in california our staff in california advocated for this network of underwater parks for more than two decades, and a final decision in 2012 to adopt the network finally made it a reality. these marine protected areas are already starting to foster vibrant, healthy ocean habitats for an abundance of sea life, from rockfish and razor clams to sea lions and shorebirds.