 the arctic is home to some of the world’s few remaining intact ecosystems, where iconic species like polar bears, walruses, ice seals, and whales thrive. yet the arctic faces unparalleled environmental challenges from climate change, loss of seasonal sea ice, ocean acidification, and the encroachment of oil and gas development, commercial shipping, and industrial fishing. human exploitation poses significant and as- yet-unknown dangers to this important region. ocean conservancy led a chorus of conservationists calling for a timeout on expanding industrial uses in the arctic. our voice joined many others urging that, instead of forging ahead with development, we must first gather more and better science from which to craft a comprehensive plan to protect the fragile arctic before any development proceeds. in 2009, our efforts met with considerable success. in february, the north pacific fishery management council voted to prevent the expansion of industrial fishing into all us waters in the northern bering, chukchi, and beaufort seas, an area of nearly 200,000 square miles. with our partners, ocean conservancy was a leading proponent for this decision and advocated strongly for its passage. most critically, the decision came before commercial fishing could gain a toehold in the area; and it established one of the largest preventative and precautionary measures in fisheries management history. advocates hailed it as a turning of the tide in arctic conservation and ocean conservancy was a key leader on the issue. in another area of focus, ocean conservancy board member philippe cousteau, grandson of legendary ocean explorer jacques cousteau, testified before the house natural resources committee on the impact of offshore oil drilling and the need for better management of industrial demands on the ocean. later in the year, heedless of our warnings and the entreaty of 70 members of congress urging a timeout from bush-era drilling plans in the arctic, the minerals management service nonetheless approved a plan for exploratory drilling in the chukchi sea. it was a move with unpredictable ramifications for the environment and for the people of alaska, as well as a setback for conservationists. ocean conservancy was unbowed, however, and immediately set about exploring alternative routes to block the expansion of drilling in one of america’s last pristine ecosystems. the arctic faces unparalleled environmental challenges from climate change, loss of sea ice, ocean acidification, and industrialization.