 year in and year out, regardless of who is in political power, ocean conservancy works on both sides of the political aisle to advocate for the well-being of our ocean. far from being a partisan issue, the state of the ocean affects all voters and all people. it is essentially connected to the air we breathe, the climate we inhabit, the food we eat. ocean conservancy focuses on the long game — the ocean is too critical to grab onto the political pendulum as it swings back and forth over time. “it’s time to roll up our sleeves and work together for the future of our ocean.” this message, delivered by ceo janis searles jones in a blog the day after the 2018 mid-term elections, emphasizes that even after such a polarizing and divisive election season, our organization looks forward to continuing our work on important ocean issues. as in every year since our 1972 founding, ocean conservancy remains steadfast in our mission to protect the ocean on behalf of the millions of people who depend upon it. “a commitment to conservation, collaboration and unity; those are the three overriding principles that should guide all that we do,” stated jones. while it is easy to be focused on who is losing power and who is gaining power at any given moment, the more important thing is to focus on what the elected officials actually do with their power. this focus is key to ocean conservancy and the way we work. the last two years have been challenging for ocean conservancy and for everyone in the environmental space — nowhere more evident than the push from some congressional members and the trump administration to undermine ocean laws. we have redoubled our efforts to defend the magnuson-stevens act, the nation’s primary law regarding fisheries, the endangered species act and the marine mammal protection act against those committed to weakening them. with several partners, we successfully sued the department of commerce after its decision to illegally extend the private recreational red snapper fishing season in the gulf of mexico during the 2017 season. for example, over the past several months we have hosted events across the country to educate chefs on the magnuson-stevens act so they can influence congress to defend the law’s strong fish conservation measures. we were sorry to see several ocean champions, both republicans and democrats, lose their seats in the november election. but we are eager to get to know and work with several new congressional members from both parties, including south carolina’s joe cunningham, a former ocean engineer; debbie marcusel powell, miami, who previously worked with the coral restoration foundation; and elaine luria, a retired u.s. navy officer from virginia beach. on the state level, initiatives have passed to bolster ocean conservation. take florida, for instance. we were thrilled that florida’s amendment 9 ballot initiative, aimed at banning offshore drilling in state waters, was passed by voters with a super-majority! also in florida, the 2018 devastation from red tide led to urgent action from us, including production of a citizen’s action guide for residents, a capitol hill briefing hosted by senator marco rubio and former senator bill nelson to bring the crisis to the forefront nationally, and a bipartisan effort to assemble multi-disciplinary experts to call on congress to reauthorize the noaa harmful algae bloom program and address issues like nutrient pollution. now it is a new day and we look forward, not backward. critical to all of these advances, and to the ones we will win on behalf of the ocean, is the support we receive from our member- ship, over 120,000 strong. members weigh in on action alerts that go to decision-makers on the national, state-wide and local scenes — prompting these leaders to sit up and take notice of ocean health. your emails and phone calls are crucial; we could not effectively carry out our advocacy efforts without your partnership. every political environment presents risks and opportunities. that was true for the past two years and will be true with the newly- elected officials who took office in january. we assure you that, in partnerships of all types, we will “stay the course” to defend and advance our ocean. let’s roll up our sleeves and work together!