 as the magnitude of the bp oil disaster became clear, ocean conservancy committed to a transformative and sustained organization-wide effort in response. the loss of life was shocking and tragic, and the devastation to marine resources and coastal communities was soon painfully apparent. as our team in the region knows so well, the gulf of mexico is a special place — not only a region of great beauty, but an economic driver providing us with food, jobs, and a unique way of life. now the world watched in horror as the well-being and prosperity of the region came under siege from a gushing oil well a mile beneath the surface of the ocean that couldn’t be capped. as ocean conservancy responded, we drew on a strong foundation: the credibility of our team in the region, which has many connections in coastal communities from years of collaboration to end overfishing; the reach of our international coastal cleanup coordinator network in the gulf states; the sage perspective of our senior staff who had played central roles in the exxon valdez response; the savvy of our government relations professionals; the expertise of our science and legal teams — all of this allowed us to mobilize quickly to confront almost every aspect of the unfolding tragedy. relief, restoration, reform our mantra during the long spring and summer, when the well continued to gush millions of gallons of oil a day into the gulf, echoed a three- pronged strategy: to secure relief for the communities and environment harmed by the spill; to ensure that full restoration of the gulf of mexico became a national priority; and to advance reforms to the broken system that had allowed such a disaster to happen. relief: ocean conservancy was successful in helping to secure million of dollars in federal assistance for those most profoundly affected, including fishermen and those in the coastal tourism industry, while our outreach team on the ground helped many in the region navigate the new realities they were confronting day-to-day. senior leaders dennis takahashi-kelso and stan senner committed themselves virtually around the clock to the response effort, sharing their wealth of experience from the exxon valdez oil spill with government officials and community leaders alike. restoration: our call for full restoration of the gulf ecosystem became the heart of our new gulf restoration and fisheries program. for decades, we have worked to restore the depleted fisheries of the region; however, in the wake of the bp disaster, the importance of a broader, ecosystem-restoration focus was clear. bp has a legal obligation to fix the damage it has inflicted, but an immediate and sustained national investment to renew the prosperity of the entire region after decades of degradation became our rallying cry. the president’s pledge to do precisely that, in his june 15 address to the nation, was an important commitment—and one that must be honored year after year through bold and concerted action. our expanded team in the gulf —including staff with our new science center in baton rouge and restoration center in new orleans—will play a central role in ensuring that the promise of a gulf restored to health is realized. reform: ocean conservancy has long advocated for changes in the way the federal government exploits and manages our ocean, and the bp disaster brought increased public scrutiny to this flawed system. we testified before congress an unprecedented number of times, worked with senior staff on capitol hill and in the executive branch, advocated before various commissions of inquiry, and wrote plans of action for change. many of our ideas shaped the reforms that have been implemented by the administration. unfortunately, other essential changes have not been enacted by congress. securing these statutory reforms will remain a priority for us in the years ahead. as the bp disaster devastatingly demonstrated, the risks of inaction are simply too great.