 ocean conservancy is a leading advocate for bringing order to our ocean through stronger ocean management policies and we are recognized on capitol hill as the go-to conservation organization on ocean issues. we started the year on a high note when president and ceo vikki spruill authored an op-ed in the washington post both congratulating president bush on the creation of a series of massive new pacific ocean national monuments and laying out specific steps for president obama to shape his own blue legacy. in the spring of 2009, spruill was invited to the white house for a front-row seat as president obama signed the omnibus public land management act, a significant piece of environmental legislation. ocean conservancy helped ensure the inclusion of a package of ocean bills in the act and mobilized a coalition of ocean groups in support of provisions to address acidification, ocean and coastal mapping, ocean exploration, and estuarine protection. we also worked hard with the new administration to protect the endangered species act (esa), a campaign that culminated with president obama’s formal revocation of rules established by the outgoing administration. ocean conservancy was the only marine group active in this effort. we submitted joint comments, generated a sizable public outcry, and championed a comprehensive approach to call attention to the dangers of a weakened esa. late in the year, president obama’s ocean policy task force released preliminary recommendations for a first-ever national ocean policy that includes a new federal ocean governance structure. specifically, the arctic was singled out as a focus for the new national ocean council—a key priority of ocean conservancy. in another highlight, dr. dennis kelso, ocean conservancy executive vice president, followed dr. jane lubchenco, administrator of the national oceanic and atmospheric administration, nancy sutley, chair of the council on environmental quality, and us coast guard commandant admiral thad allen in testifying before a us senate committee on the need for a unified national ocean policy. kelso espoused the virtues of coastal and marine spatial planning, a system of ocean governance ocean conservancy promotes strongly as a way to ensure ecosystem protection while balancing the existing and emerging uses of our ocean—from recreation to fishing, fossil fuels to renewable energy. a leading advocate for bringing order to our ocean through stronger ocean management.