 despite an economic climate as tough as anyone could remember, 2009 could not have started for the ocean on higher or more energetic notes than when the outgoing bush administration designated three marine national monuments in the pacific that protected pristine ecosystems half-again larger than all us national parks combined. that announcement was followed by inaugural initiatives of the obama administration and the unveiling of new policies shaped during a fast-paced transition period. so began a profoundly transformative year for the ocean and for all who depend upon it for life or livelihood. from the arctic to the gulf of mexico, and from maui to maine, 2009 was another year ocean conservancy asserted its leadership on the key conservation issues of our time. we continued to cement our role on the national stage as leader on issues ranging from ecosystem protection to ocean governance reform, fisheries recovery to marine debris prevention. our acknowledged credibility and our hard work during the new administration’s transition process led directly to a seat at the tables where important policies were hammered out—policies that will transform our ocean far into the future. from our invitations to the white house to witness president bush designate an unprecedented series of marine national monuments in the south pacific and president obama unveil his first climate change policy, to congressional requests for our help in shaping national legislation on aquaculture, to the strong scientific guidance we are providing for the effort to end overfishing once and for all, 2009 was ocean conservancy’s year. there were tremendous successes for ocean conservancy, but those successes were made possible only through the generous support of individual, corporate, and foundation donors, and by the continued help of hundreds of thousands of our volunteers across the globe. we could not achieve our goals and we cannot continue the good and important work expected of us without that generosity. thank you, one and all, for your financial support, your good wishes, and your strong voices in the interest of a healthier, more vibrant, and more beautiful ocean.