 from our earliest days almost 40 years ago as advocates for protecting endangered whales, to our watershed work in the last decade to save sea turtles, marine mammals, and other wildlife, ocean conservancy has been a resolute voice for healthy ocean wildlife that is integral to healthy ecosystems. each year, thousands of whales, dolphins, seals, seabirds, and sea turtles die as “bycatch”—animals injured or killed accidentally in commercial fishing operations. speeding ships in some of the busiest marine shipping lanes harm and kill endangered whales. pollution and trash poison, starve, and choke animals from new england to hawaii. and, when ocean ecosystems are harmed and animals disappear, with them go tourists and good businesses. our message is clear: when animals suffer, whole communities suffer. building on our decades-long legacy of vocal advocacy for marine wildlife, ocean conservancy is leading conservation to a new age of smart solutions to protect ocean wildlife and their habitats. a brake for whales ocean conservancy was instrumental in securing long-delayed federal protections for endangered north atlantic right whales against death and injury from fast, large ships entering us east coast ports. with a population so small that the death of a single female whale could mean extinction for the species, our work has never been more critical. in 2008, we led the successful effort to force the national marine fisheries service to limit ship speeds in locations where right whales migrate, feed, and give birth. whale-safer lobstering ocean conservancy played a central role in bringing together the massachusetts lobstermen’s association and several top conservation partners in new england to launch a labeling and education program to distinguish massachusetts lobsters caught using fishing practices that are safer for whales. the program, which we hope to expand beyond massachusetts, distributed over 850,000 claw bands that help consumers make the smart choice of whale-safer lobster. this innovative coalition highlights ocean conservancy’s ability to reach out to groups on all sides of issues—from consumers to commercial fishermen—with a message that a strong environment means a strong economy. international sea turtle symposium ocean conservancy hosted the 28th annual symposium on sea turtle conservation and biology in loreto, mexico. the conference is sponsored by the international sea turtle society (ists) and is the annual pilgrimage for the world’s sea turtle scientists. last year’s symposium emphasized “native oceans”—seeking to recognize that indigenous communities’ efforts to conserve their natural environment are an integral component of international initiatives to save turtles. at the conference, ocean conservancy stressed sustainability, introducing a novel “live blue challenge,” a contest among participants aimed at minimizing the ecological impact of the symposium.