 in a turbulent, politically-charged year, ocean conservancy realized early on that the best way to support the ocean was to join forces with multiple stakeholders to build a stronger, more widely shared offensive for the ocean we all treasure. in the center section of this 2017 annual report issue of splash, you will read about the many ways ocean conservancy has developed common ground, from pragmatic partnerships to more diverse and unusual ones, all in the service of a more robust, productive ocean. none of these victories would have been possible without the solid partnerships that have been established between the organization and you, our supporters. from signing petitions to contacting your congressional representatives, removing trash from local waterways to advocating for strong fisheries regulations, your support has been critical, especially in a year with so many challenges to our previous conservation gains. and, of course, your generous monetary contributions have provided the “winds” that have kept our sails full and our ship advancing. believing that partnerships must rise above politics to secure durable ocean wins, ocean conservancy reached across aisles as well as oceans. we worked across political aisles, regionally and nationally, to build constituencies of support for our efforts to ensure smart ocean planning, combat ocean acidification and call for science-based fisheries regulations. we battled across the circumpolar arctic to safeguard wildlife in that critical region, and have collaborated with institutions like oxford university, stanford university and the university of california — santa barbara to develop innovative techniques to understand and address complicated ocean challenges. and we joined with nations and multinational organizations in southeast asia to stop the flow of plastic waste into our ocean. as we pause to celebrate the accomplishments of the past year, we are committed now, more than ever, to bold and ambitious projects to secure even more conservation wins for the ocean going forward. we speak for the entire board, our ceo janis searles jones and all of ocean conservancy in thanking you for your invaluable support in 2017. please continue to help us in 2018.