 for generations, the ocean has been an important source of food. but our global population has put immense strain on the seas and many of the world’s wild fish are now at historical lows. as ocean conservancy and our colleagues around the world work to help bring these species back from the brink, it has become clear that wild fish alone won’t meet our future seafood needs. fish farming—also known as aquaculture—can help complement our sustainable wild fisheries, but to do so, it must develop here at home in ways that don’t damage natural habitats, including our ocean. rapid growth of some forms of aquaculture around the world has often come with considerable environmental and social cost. ocean conservancy is leading the charge to ensure that these negative impacts aren’t experienced in the us as well. we believe that aquaculture, if done right, can contribute to a viable future for fish—in the wild and on our dinner plates. the core of our effort has been to ensure that strong safeguards are in place before the expansion of an open-ocean aquaculture industry in us waters. to that end, we laid out our vision of a precautionary approach in a seminal 2010 white paper, right from the start. we developed and provided science and educational materials to key decision-makers, and supported the first precautionary offshore aquaculture bill ever introduced in the united states congress. and we helped shape the administration’s approach, successfully urging a policy review of noaa’s approach to open-ocean fish farming. we also took ocean conservancy’s message to the international stage, including the 2010 seafood summit in paris, where leaders in the seafood industry, the conservation community, and the foundation world explored cutting-edge solutions that advance sustainable seafood and marine conservation. as humankind makes critical decisions that will determine how future generations balance a growing global population, a growing aquaculture industry, and the desire for wild seafood, ocean conservancy will continue to occupy the key role we played in 2010, as both pioneer and leader for strong, protective aquaculture policies.