 as it has for 24 years, september brought ocean conservancy’s international coastal cleanup, the world’s largest volunteer effort to clean up our local waters, beaches, rivers, lakes, and streams. since 1986, almost seven million volunteers in over 125 countries have participated in this global event. their work has touched every major body of water on the planet. each year, volunteers remove millions of pounds of trash, doing what they can to protect the environment by keeping our ocean healthy. for volunteers, the international coastal cleanup is a stark but inspiring initiation into the deterioration of our ocean, and spurs a deeper commitment to marine conservation. the hard work, however, doesn’t start and end in a day. the annual reports published by ocean conservancy detail, by location, the things we find during the cleanup. they have helped shape national legislation and spur towns across the country to organize cleanups and adopt recycling programs. ocean conservancy remains committed to end- ing the problem of trash in our ocean and is working to expand public participation, corporate partnerships, and the reach of our message to the media and policy makers, all of whom can have profound effects on this challenging, but solvable, problem. profound growth 2008 was a breakthrough year for the cleanup. we continued to grow the effort that is already the world’s largest all-volunteer ocean cleanup program. our volunteer base increased to nearly 400,000 and the number of participating countries and locations jumped by more than thirty percent over the previous year. we also doubled our staff and hired a new director for the cleanup to capitalize on the momentum we have built in the last few years of the program. with this exceptional team now in place, we expect to maintain our momentum in 2009 to make this year’s cleanup the biggest and most far-reaching yet. the real thing every day it grows clearer that collaboration is key to conservation. in 2008, ocean conservancy forged new and deeper relationships with corporate and government partners who have become the cornerstone of this movement. longstanding partner coca-cola (see profile) raised its financial support and lent its considerable branding expertise to help us raise awareness of marine debris and the cleanup. in december, ocean conservancy and coca-cola were highlighted at the national “good and green” marketing conference in chicago as a strong example of public-private partnerships that work for the good of the planet. making the connection bank of america, likewise, made a resounding statement in support of the ocean-climate connection, educating its associates about climate change and its impacts on the ocean. bank of america increased its support of the cleanup and saw opportunity to provide seed money for ocean conservancy’s ocean industries initiative to help businesses reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. volunteers from “team bank of america” also came out in force at cleanup events across the united states, and drew in members of the larger local community. year-round vigilance ocean conservancy redoubled its efforts to shift public perception of the cleanup from a single-day event to a year-round movement. we are focused on stopping marine debris at its source, the heart of the problem whether near the shore or far inland from where it travels to our ocean. trash comes from people, but once in the water it can kill wildlife, destroy reefs, and despoil an inspiring experience that countless millions treasure. media matters ocean conservancy made a concerted push to raise the profile of the cleanup in the media and we hit the airwaves and print in force. last year was notable for the broad presence of the international coastal cleanup in the main- stream media. at the traditional white house easter egg roll in the spring, ocean conservancy was a special invitee of president bush and first lady laura bush, who dedicated the event to raising awareness of the marine debris problem. ocean conservancy was featured on “good morning america” and in local media outlets across the nation to talk about the cleanup. usatoday, the washington post, and others published articles highlighting our work and focusing not only on the amount of debris cleared, but also on the connection between the behaviors that are at the heart of the problem of marine debris.