 for more than 40 years, ocean conservancy has championed science- based solutions to the greatest challenges facing the ocean. with the support and advocacy efforts of our members and conservation partners, ocean conservancy has played a key leadership role in winning many victories on behalf of the ocean. to cite a few, these victories include: securing significant improvements to our nation’s fisheries management law while rebuilding vitally important fisheries; establishing along the coast of california the nation’s only network of marine protected areas; protecting the ocean’s vast array of wildlife—sea turtles, whales, dolphins and others—whose well-being has been jeopardized and habitats compromised; hosting the largest global volunteer effort annually to rid the ocean and other waterways of dangerous and unsightly trash; and leading the charge for comprehensive restoration in the gulf of mexico following the 2010 bp deepwater horizon oil disaster. soon after taking the helm of the organization in february 2013, president and ceo andreas merkl kicked off a strategic effort to assess where we are now as an ocean conservation organization and where we should direct our efforts to achieve the most conservation impact going forward. we looked at the major forces affecting ocean health, ocean conservancy’s own history, our strengths and passions, and emerging issues— like climate change, ocean acidification and melting arctic wildlife habitats—that put enormous stress on the ocean and its precious resources. our assessment revealed that our priorities are, indeed, the right ones. first and foremost, ocean conservancy is convinced that we can achieve the greatest conservation gains by approaching conservation holistically, taking into account a region’s economic stability and human communities as well as its habitats, wildlife and the range of stressors that harm ocean health. we apply this ecosystem approach in the major places where we work and that our members love. second, ocean conservancy designs and implements science-based solutions to overcome the myriad threats facing the ocean, from increased acidity levels caused by rising carbon dioxide levels to proliferation of marine debris that jeopardizes ocean life to the costly conflicts among ocean activities that result from the lack of smart planning for our ocean and coasts. our future efforts, like our current work, will be grounded in these two priorities. our research during this planning process also revealed that the enormous changes occurring in the ocean call for nimble, adaptive solutions to meet the increasing challenges to ocean health. and these changes are happening at the same time that technical, analytical and scientific tools to aid conservation are becoming more widely available. indeed, this moment presents an opportunity—and a great deal of hope for ocean conservation—for ocean conservancy, in collaboration with domestic and international partners, to strengthen our conservation impact in the face of these changes. and to accomplish those gains for the ocean, we will need the help, hard work and support of ocean conservancy members and allies. we will proceed judiciously in 2014 to incorporate new areas of work into our current conservation agenda. for example, we will expand our focus in the arctic from a solely u.s. approach to one that extends across the arctic, working to build an integrated approach to managing the ecosystems and activities in arctic seas. with the opening of arctic waters and the increased shipping that accompanies melting ice—as well as the changes that follow the widening of the panama canal—we will focus on the shipping risks that arise for the ocean, identifying the hot spots of risk from shipping and determining how best to mitigate them. we will bring our decades of fisheries management experience to places beyond our national borders to address ecologically destructive overfishing. and we will accelerate our analysis of plastic pollution, which harms ocean wildlife and habitats, with the goal of developing solutions to reduce it. the confluence of a rapidly changing ocean and an explosion in demand for its natural resources, especially as the global population continues to increase, mandates that ocean conservancy redouble our efforts. new solutions are needed, and we will work with colleagues and experts the world over to discover and implement them. as ocean conservancy moves forward to embrace this exciting future, we are grateful for the continued support of our members who make our work possible. we look forward to leading the way with you as our partners.