 celebrated a successful completion of california's network of underwater parks. early 2013 brought us to a successful completion of a decade-long project to create california's network of underwater parks-covering 850 square miles of diverse, representative habitats of california's coastal waters. during the year, we shifted our focus toward encouraging residents and visitors to explore their new underwater parks, convinced that building awareness about marine protected areas is critical to ensuring the permanence and effectiveness of the entire network. we generated publicity in multiple tourism, recreation and industry publications, and helped generate expanded public awareness so persona; connections with the marine protected areas will help ensure their lasting success. ocean conservancy participated in the international marine protected areas congress in france to highlight out success in the creation of this statewide network. led efforts to reauthorize and strengthen the nation's fisheries law. the magnuson-stevens fishery conservation and management act (msa) has helped make the united states a global leader in ending overfishing and ocean conservancy has been at the forefront of the current reauthorization effort. we released a report highlighting how the law has benefited fishermen and successfully prepared those fishermen to testify before congress. additionally, our director of ecosystem conservation programs chris dorsett became the first member of the conservation community in four years invited to testify on the topic on capitol hill. as we work to defend the gains we have made,, we are also advocating for changes to the msa that better incorporate ecosystem considerations into fisheries management. used the international coastal cleanup's data collection methods to protect endangered sea turtles. the international coastal cleanup remains the largest global volunteer effort to remove debris from beaches and waterways, and over the last year we've also organized spacial cleanups to collect debris originating from superstorm sandy and the 2011 japan tsunami. in 2013, we also began applying the cleanup's debris monitoring protocol to a pilot project in wrightsville beach, n.c. to better understand the potential impacts of ocean trash on sea turtles and identify opportunities to enhance their protection. we are working to build on this project with similar work in the southeastern united states, gulf of mexico, central america and africa. helped launch the first two regional planning bodies to engage decision-makers in smart ocean planning ocean conservancy continues to lead the marine conservation community in calling for sound, coordinated planning for our ocean that balances competing uses such as alternative energy, industrial activities and recreation. thanks to our efforts, the mid-atlantic and northeast regional ocean councils held their inaugural meetings this year—an indication of increasing commitment among federal, state and tribal decision-makers to effective ocean and coastal management. moreover, we helped maintain previous levels of federal funding for the issue—a significant achievement amid political pressure to reduce overall federal spending. successfully advocated for a halt to drilling operations in u.s. arctic waters by highlighting shell’s error- and problem-riddled drilling efforts in 2012 and advocating significant reforms to improve safety, ocean conservancy helped ensure that shell abandoned its plans to drill in u.s. arctic waters in 2013. two other oil companies announced a suspension of their offshore activities in the region until at least 2015. these developments underscore our belief that the oil industry is not ready to drill in the arctic ocean, and give us momentum as we seek protections for the most ecologically vulnerable areas amid growing threats, not only from industrial activity but also from climate change. produced a comprehensive atlas that provides a big-picture view of the gulf of mexico in support of restoration efforts as restoration efforts continue in earnest following the bp deepwater horizon oil disaster, ocean conservancy released the gulf of mexico ecosystem: a coastal and marine atlas, which maps key habitats and geographic features of the gulf and highlights marine wildlife critical to the ecoregion. the unique atlas, lauded by decision-makers, helps guide our efforts as we advocate for use of restore act funds toward comprehensive, science-based restoration projects with emphasis on the marine environment on which many local economies in the gulf depend. worked with partners to promote state action on ocean acidification our efforts to bring attention to the impacts ocean acidification has on people, places and livelihoods achieved an important milestone as washington became the first state to adopt an executive order mandating action. california followed by creating a science panel to study ocean acidification, and scientists from oregon and washington have agreed to join. maine also passed a resolution identifying acidification as a threat. ocean conservancy produced videos about people impacted by ocean acidification on the east and west coasts which we used to engage decision-makers. we are building on this momentum by mobilizing stakeholders and working with state leaders to demand further action.