 for decades, experts have agreed that a lack of comprehensive, coordinated decision-making has caused great damage to ocean health. a piecemeal approach has meant conflict between competing uses of the ocean, costly delays for projects, and harm to ecosystems—all of which paint an unsustainable future for our ocean, our coast, and the next generation that depends on them. ocean conservancy has long advocated for urgently needed improvements in the ways we manage our precious marine resources. the last two years have finally seen the start of a sea change in our nation’s ocean governance, and we’re proud of the key role we’ve played in making it possible. in june 2009, the president created an ocean policy task force to consider ways in which different parts of the federal government should work together to keep our ocean healthy—including the use of an ecosystem-based management tool called coastal and marine spatial planning (cmsp). on july 19, 2010, the president signed a landmark executive order to implement those recommendations, which include a new white house-level national ocean council bringing together over 20 relevant agencies; the integration of cmsp into ocean planning on a regional basis throughout the nation; and the development of strategic plans to confront critical challenges in a number of specific areas. ocean conservancy’s leadership role in this historic victory is unquestioned. from the earliest moments of the transition following the 2008 presidential election, we worked to ensure that the new white house team understood why comprehensive ocean management must be a top priority for the nation. we convened the conservation community in weekly meetings during the task force process, in order to provide informal advice and formal recommendations to key decision-makers. we testified before powerful congressional committees in support of the national ocean policy and cmsp, and fought to secure the funding necessary to implement cmsp effectively. although the bp oil disaster overshadowed the president’s visionary executive order, the order’s potential to change the face of ocean conservation is profound. the challenge now is to ensure the new national ocean policy, national ocean council, and strategic plans realize their full potential. in that task, too, ocean conservancy will be working hard to ensure that the results translate into lasting benefits for ocean health.