 as we look back on 2013, we are convinced that ocean conservancy’s programs are stronger than ever as we continue to make progress in rebuilding fish stocks, tackling marine debris and combating emerging issues such as ocean acidification. we achieved significant milestones this past year, thanks to supporters like you who make our efforts possible and productive. you helped us restrict oil and gas drilling in the fragile arctic. we persuaded states to take action on ocean planning and ocean acidification. california’s marine protected areas are already demonstrating their effectiveness—and are being embraced by ocean enthusiasts throughout the state. four years after the bp deepwater horizon oil disaster, we are successfully advocating use of restoration funds for projects that will lead to a healthier gulf of mexico. you once again supported our international coastal cleanup—the largest global volunteer effort of its kind, and helped us use the cleanup’s monitoring protocol to protect endangered sea turtles from harm caused by marine debris in their nesting habitats. but all is not well in the ocean. warmer and more acidic waters, retreating ice levels, and tremendous pressure from fishing, shipping and resource exploitation are stretching our current management methods way beyond what they are designed to do. how do we manage fisheries in an age when fish stocks are constantly shifting in search of cooler waters? how do we manage supertanker shipping through the newly ice-free “northern routes”? as the ocean undergoes these types of systemic change, ocean conservancy needs to lead the search for new solutions. our scientists, fishery management specialists, policy experts, advocates and economists are determined to tackle these critical issues in the years to come. we cannot do this alone—we need to build deep global networks of technical leaders and decision-makers, we need hosts of partners, and we need you. the challenges in front of us are extraordinary, and we consider ourselves extremely privileged to do the work that we do. the problems can only be solved by working together, and we are immensely grateful for your continued dedication in our fight for a healthy ocean.