 bob mckinney started out with plans to become a national park guide. “the war came along and everything changed,” he says of the days after the japanese bombed pearl harbor. in 1941, bob’s interest in preserving nature was refocused on serving his country. in 1946, he arrived in san francisco to board a navy ship bound for japan, and met his future wife, arlene (known by some of her friends as “skip”). bob recalls, “i went out to a nightclub with my brother, who had just returned from okinawa, where i saw a classmate of mine from the naval academy sitting with skip. i went out with her the next night. bob and skip corresponded for five years, until they married in 1951. nearly 60 years later, the mckinneys have had many adventures, but never did make their home in a national park. instead, they’ve dedicated their volunteer time and funds to the support of natural places, pledging $1 million to the sierra club foundation, to support its climate recovery partnership, and serving as leaders on the campaign cabinet. why? sierra club “is the best answer in america to the most pressing challenge of our time—climate change,” said skip. bob added, “in indiana, unfortunately, you don’t hear as much about climate change as you do in other areas of the country. the midwest is coal country.” the mckinneys aim to change that. besides advocating for climate solutions with sierra club, the mckinneys support the hoosier environmental council (hec) at home in indiana. part of the hec’s agenda is to make indiana a national leader in clean energy equipment manufacturing by offering corporations the right mix of incentives to re-locate to their home state. the mckinneys have been very encouraged by indiana’s progress in areas such as wind farms and companies developing technology for hybrid electric vehicles. bob is hoping for continued administrative policy initiatives statewide that would demonstrate to venture capital firms that indiana is a supportive environment for such investments. the mckinneys have built a legacy with their generosity to environmental causes. further, they’ve instilled those same strong values in their entire family. skip said she is “particularly proud that our daughter marni has followed her father’s example and joined the board of the sierra club foundation.”