 campaign highlights. strategically aligning its efforts with those of the beyond coal campaign, the clean energy solutions campaign made great strides in moving the united states toward a sustainable economic and environmental future powered by clean energy. here are a few victories we’re celebrating: getting power to the people: siting and transmission california governor arnold schwarzenegger and department of the interior secretary ken salazar signed an agreement to speed the development of utility-scale renewables. many of the best provisions were promoted—and, in some key instances, developed— by sierra club. these include: ■ forming “renewable energy zones” to concentrate solar and other renewable energy (re) development, thereby limiting environmental impact; ■ creating inter-agency teams directly responsible for completing the work of re build-outs (including rejection of unsuitable places); and ■ authorizing the bureau of land management to reject applications to build in unsuitable places. (previously, they had accepted all right-of-way applications, no matter how inappropriately sited.) sierra club is committed to balancing the promotion of responsibly-sited large facilities and protecting the lands and wildlife we hold dear. at the signing event, both governor schwarzenegger and secretary salazar personally thanked us for our work. replacing coal with clean energy los angeles activists packed city hearings and generated 3,000 communications in support of the l.a. solar plan to make their city coal-free by 2020. in oregon, 400 sierra club activists urged the state’s integrated resource plan (irp) to move away from coal. with funding from the sierra club foundation, the club’s environmental law team illustrated how shutting down the boardman coal plant by 2014 would be the most economical option for portland general electric’s irp. partnering with business and labor sierra club built strong labor and clean tech partnerships to promote the economic benefi ts of a clean energy economy. in portland, oregon, the adoption of quality assurance standards for residential retrofi ts will ensure that retrofit work delivers the energy savings and utility bill reductions promised by contractors, reduces perceived risk for retrofit project lenders, and increases profit margins for retrofit businesses. chapter highlight indiana the indiana “hoosiers” chapter worked with representatives of the indiana association of building offi cials in an administrative rulemaking effort to amend the 2009 international residential code (irc). overcoming opposition from the indiana builders association, the hoosiers chapter reached out to 9,000 indiana activists, resulting in 1,000 emails and letters sent to the governor’s offi ce requesting strong building energy codes. the chapter had an op-ed piece published in a major newspaper and letters to the editor published in four other newspapers educating the public on the benefit of improved residential building codes. the hoosiers chapter was able to pass the commercial codes and is hopeful that 2010 will see passage of similarly stringent codes for residential construction.