 2009 was a tumultuous year for the nation and the environment. from the obama inauguration to copenhagen, it’s been quite a ride. for the sierra club foundation, and our partner, sierra club, we are in a time of transition to new leadership, once-in-a-lifetime opportunities, and grave challenges. we thank those leaders who have paved the way, and we now move boldly ahead to fight the greatest challenge of our lifetime, climate change. we have cause for hope. sierra club, with generous funding from the sierra club foundation donors, made great strides towards our climate recovery goals. the beyond coal campaign defeated 26 coal plant proposals in 2009, keeping more than 400 million metric tons of harmful pollution and greenhouse gases out of the atmosphere. and to the great relief of public land lovers everywhere, through pressure by sierra club activists, the obama administration reaffirmed its commitment to the clinton-era roadless rule, protecting more than 50 million acres of national forests. this report highlights some of the partners who have made the club and the foundation what they are today. outgoing chair bob mckinney brought unprecedented leadership skills, infl uence, and grace to the chair’s role. we are honored and humbled to pick up where bob left off as he, and his wife skip, lead sierra club’s climate recovery partnership, as members of the campaign cabinet. we’d also like to thank outgoing foundation directors dick fiddler, joe fontaine, bob heil, michael loeb, and former sierra club executive director mike mccloskey, for their years of service. after 18 years as executive director of sierra club, carl pope transitions to the role of chairman. carl’s herculean efforts spanning two decades are covered in more detail on the following page. carl’s leadership will be in full force as we launch the boldest, largest endeavor in the organization’s history, the climate recovery partnership. to beat back climate change, it’s going to take a force much larger than ourselves; we must continue to embrace new partners from all corners of society regardless of ideology or background. in 2010, internationally acclaimed environmental leader and sierra club books author michael brune takes the helm as the club’s executive director. we owe tremendous gratitude to these leaders and to you, our donors. the sierra club foundation relies upon and greatly appreciates your financial support and partnership.