 to meet the climate challenge, we build partnerships among a variety of groups: labor unions, faith-based groups, hunters and anglers, native american tribes, and others. we also take seriously our commitment to supporting and working with low-income neighborhoods and communities of color, those often most affected by the consequences of climate change and pollution. support from the sierra club foundation has allowed the following programs to connect and thrive in communities nationwide: environmental justice and community partnerships program sierra club’s environmental justice and community partnerships program is one of the premier programs of its kind, with a dedicated corps of experienced organizers and dynamic volunteers organizing at eight sites across the country. in 2009, we partnered with communities in appalachia to address mining impacts that are most immediately felt by local residents, including high levels of dust generated by trucks hauling coal through neighborhoods. in the fight against dirty coal, they worked closely with a diverse coalition of tribal groups to block proposed coal-fired power plants and mining projects on navajo nation and hopi lands in arizona and new mexico. in addition, as part of the navajo green economy coalition, they helped lay the groundwork to transition the navajo nation to a clean energy economy. labor partnerships working with the blue green alliance and other labor partners, sierra club focused national attention on creating green jobs. the second good jobs, green jobs national conference in washington, d.c. brought together 2,700 leaders and activists from the labor movement, business and industry, environmental organizations, and community groups, as well as elected officials and decision-makers from around the country participating organizations included not only big unions and big environmental groups, but also many businesses (e.g. “old economy” companies like the aluminum-maker alcoa and “new economy” companies like grosolar, an installer of residential solar-systems) and academic institutions (e.g. carnegie mellon university and yale university), as well as a variety of smaller, community-based environmental groups. hunters & anglers program with funding from the sierra club foundation, sierra sportsmen partnered with northwest steelheaders, native fish society, trout unlimited, northwest guides and anglers association, and local fishermen to celebrate public lands day by cleaning up 13 miles along the wilson river in the tillamook state forest. the event helped strengthen the club’s alliance with a variety of fishing groups and businesses, oregon’s state agencies, the oregon board of forestry, and local community members surrounding the tillamook state forest. faith communities in partnership with the governor’s climate working group, sierra club helps lead a coalition of more than 35 cultural, faith-based, social justice, employment training, and environmental organizations dedicated to building a sustainable green economy in minnesota. the coalition promotes good-paying green jobs and relevant skills training for low-income and minority residents.