 ann mesnikoff is the director of the club’s green transportation campaign. an expert in fuel economy issues, ann has worked with sierra club for ten years as lead strategist in transitioning to a greener transportation system in the united states. she’s joined by foundation board member chuck frank. chuck was raised in the car business, having owned the world’s largest chevrolet dealership and numerous others. chuck serves on the leadership team for the green transportation campaign. ann: how did you become interested in the green transportation campaign? chuck: i’ve been a sierra club member since 1975. when i joined the foundation’s national advisory council in 1993, i wasn’t sure how i’d be greeted by sierra club, as a dealer selling suvs. in fact, i was warmly embraced, as an industry insider who could advocate for higher fuel economy standards. i started supporting the campaign to raise fuel economy standards that very year. ann: clearly, you’re already playing a very big role in bringing a cleaner, greener solution to american transportation. in 2002, senator richard durbin (d-il) honored you on the senate fl oor, calling you an “inspiration” to his work in improving fuel economy. what gives you inspiration that we can successfully turn around an industry that’s already suffering financially? chuck: i never bought the argument that by greening our automotive industry, we’d hinder our economy, consumer choice, or safety. but, until recently, consumers saw fuel economy as a financial issue, not an environmental one. now it’s both—plus it’s an issue of national security. gas prices and fuel economy standards are going up. we’re considering taxing carbon. demand is building. with sierra club’s work, there will be a tipping point, as the economy heats back up, in which alternative fuel vehicles will be on the same price level as fuel gasoline engines, saving consumers money at the fuel pump. ann: do you think the club’s goals are attainable? chuck: i absolutely do. i always looked at sierra club as an organization of citizens, who individually have a passion to accomplish something. some of those citizens have the time and capability to get out here and do it themselves. some of us don’t have the time, but have resources and the same passion, and together, through our extensive grassroots networks, we can accomplish our goals.