 the sierra club and allies have made profound structural changes to u.s. electricity production through campaigns rooted in state and local advocacy, grassroots power, and robust partnerships. this success is transforming how energy is generated, saving thousands of lives and positioning our country to lead on solving the climate crisis—regardless of who is in the white house. after president trump announced he would withdraw the united states from the paris climate agreement, the sierra club leveraged its relationships with state and local officials nationwide to secure #wearestillin commitments and continue progress toward the paris goals. since 2010, working with partners, we have retired more than half of all u.s. coal- fired power plants. new analysis shows that between 60 and 100 percent of the carbon reductions needed to hit the country’s paris pledge can be achieved by replacing coal with clean energy. due to our success in reducing emissions from the electric sector, transportation is now the largest source of u.s. greenhouse gas emissions and advancing clean transportation for all is a priority. in addition to working in coalition to secure electric vehicle infrastructure around the country, the sierra club celebrated alongside our partners when the los angeles county metropolitan transportation agency established a new goal to convert its entire bus fleet to electric buses powered by 100 percent renewable energy. seed funded three years ago by the sierra club foundation’s forward fund, the ready for 100 campaign is now active in more than 100 communities. the campaign provides an “open-source” opportunity for local action to advance bipartisan clean energy solutions for all. more than 50 cities have committed to transitioning to clean energy since early 2016. we cannot solve the climate crisis alone. as evidenced by the launch of europe beyond coal, strong partnerships are often at the heart of major clean energy wins with the biggest benefits being ecological sustainability, public health, and shared prosperity for all.