 the resilient habitats campaign grows out of the long and proud tradition of sierra club fighting to protect our natural heritage. using science-based best practices, resilient habitats are protected, connected, and cared for, allowing the natural world and associated human communities to survive climate change. nationwide: preserving 50 million acres of roadless areas in june of 2009, a federal judge ruled in sierra club’s favor that the bush-era forest service planning regulations failed to adequately protect populations of threatened wildlife. then, in august, agriculture secretary tom vilsack reversed some of the most disastrous forest policies imposed by the bush administration. furthermore, he reaffi rmed the obama administration’s full support of the roadless area rule, put in place by president clinton, which protects more than 50 million acres of national forests. vilsack agreed to join the club and its allies in our efforts. work in priority ecosystems greater yellowstone to protect bridger-teton national forest from the effects of climate change, sierra club gathered comments from the public advocating the protection of sensitive wildlife species, preservation of critical habitat, and reduction of motorized trails and routes. this pressure from the club and its supporters resulted in a commitment to a wildlife-friendly summer travel plan for the national forest. then, sierra club’s network of volunteers stepped up to help ensure the plan’s success, spending their summer rehabilitating old routes and erecting barriers that close trails to motorized use. by reducing non-climate stressors such as off-road vehicle use, wildlife will have a better chance of adapting to climate change. gulf coast throughout 2009, sierra club in louisiana continued to engage local and national universities, local partners, and residents of the lower ninth ward (a low-income community) in restoring the bayou bienvenue wetlands. this area provides critical protection from fl ooding and storm events as well as rising sea levels. highlights of the 2009 efforts included conducting tours to publicize the project. notable visitors included pope benedict xvi (a.k.a. “the green pope”) and nancy sutley, chair of the council on environmental quality. sierra club also was successful in getting this community-driven project included in the mississippi river gulf outlet (mrgo) ecosystem restoration plan being developed by the u.s. army corps of engineers. additional mrgo efforts in 2009 include participating in a myriad of community and agency meetings, supporting the mrgo must go coalition, and engaging community leaders in the development of the plan. “sierra club’s nationwide presence, coupled with its army of activists, makes it possible to address big- picture issues in a way most other conservation organizations cannot. the club always delivers.” – adirondacks to acadia sierra club volunteers and campaign staff in maine celebrated with conservation partners and governor john baldacci as another key parcel of the club’s 100-mile wilderness project was purchased and protected for ecological and wilderness recreation purposes. conservation of the 29,500 acres of the west branch of the pleasant river watershed results in a protected corridor 65 miles long through some of the richest wildlife habitat in the state. governor baldacci thanked the club for its leadership in conserving lands surrounding this final northern leg of the appalachian trail. chapter highlight california the national park service found the san gabriel mountains to be of national significance and hosted public meetings to gather input on ways to protect resources while enhancing recreational and educational opportunities in both the mountains as well as the park-poor communities of eastern los angeles county. sierra club, with significant involvement from the angeles chapter’s forest committee, turned out approximately 250 people (more than half of all participants). comments overwhelmingly called for the creation of a san gabriel mountains national recreation area. such a designation would create wildlife corridors between the san gabriel mountains, the puente-chino hills, and the santa ana mountains. it would bring in more rangers and resources for healthy recreation and it would connect underserved communities to the mountains and wilderness areas through a system of trails and bike paths. a preferred draft alternative is expected in the fall of 2010.