 a clean-energy economy is paramount to protecting public health, the environment, and our planet. in 2014, we solidified our commitment to a carbon-free power grid and cutting domestic oil use in half by 2030. we launched the forward fund to get a new generation of investor-philanthropists to help lead the charge, and locked in our first multi-million dollar seed funding for innovative domestic and international work. sierra club’s my generation campaign significantly altered the landscape for local clean energy policy in california, our pilot state, in a monumental push for an unprecedented number of megawatts of solar and wind installed across the country. upholding the arizona energy efficiency standard (ees), ensuring energy and cost savings twelve municipalities upgrading to more efficient building codes california. 250,000 homes, schools, and businesses to go solar improved residential solar permitting and expanded efficiency programs a leading energy efficiency policy in los angeles georgia. the state’s first utility-scale wind purchase illinois. mainstreaming solar power in the business community kentucky. the state’s first utility-scale solar project maine. a major wind project in bingham massachusetts. a new program to bring more solar power online by 2020 a new rebate program for purchasing or leasing plug-in vehicles minnesota. the state’s first large-scale solar project missouri. replacing coal with new wind capacity greater investment in wind energy an energy efficiency program that includes rebates for customers in lower- income areas new york. an extended state-level program that will dramatically increase solar ohio energy efficiency standards to prevail over taxpayer-financed coal plant bailouts south carolina. expanding solar with a strong net metering policy texas. clean energy storage technologies a plan to significantly increase austin’s clean energy portfolio utah. preventing an unfair tax on solar customers nationwide. thousands of americans learning about electric vehicles through a popular online consumer guide and ‘pick a plug-in’ quiz nationwide pepsico’s commitment to a greener fleet, including more efficient trucks and lower carbon fuel sources nationwide public education as a lead organizer of national drive electric week, with events in 150 cities with 90,000+ attendees