 #wearestillin more than 1,200 u.s. mayors, governors, college and university leaders, businesses, and investors countered president trump’s irresponsible decision to withdraw from the paris climate accord, declaring, “we are still in.” the sierra club’s local clean energy progress was bolstered by this overwhelming resistance to the administration’s anti-climate agenda, with #wearestillin reinforcing the paris agreement in the absence of federal leadership. 100% over 30 cities pledge 100% clean energy in 2017 alone, more than 30 cities committed to transition to renewable energy as a result of ready for 100 campaign efforts. after the people’s climate march and leading up to the u.s. conference of mayors, we launched mayors for 100% clean energy, recruiting 150 mayors from both sides of the aisle to lead ambitious national progress by endorsing a vision of 100 percent clean energy. 22 more coal plants being retired despite the empty promises of the trump administration to “bring back coal,” we continued to make big strides toward moving the united states beyond coal in 2017, with 22 plants retired or committed to retire, even after trump took office. since 2010, our work with partners has enabled the retirement of half of the country’s coal-fired power plants, at the rate of 1 every 14 days. europe: coal free by 2030 after several years of collaboration with the beyond coal and international climate campaigns, 37 european union allies across 28 countries launched the europe beyond coal campaign. the initiative is modeled after the sierra club’s campaign in the united states as we continue to make progress toward paris climate agreement goals. keystone xl pipeline update through litigation and grassroots organizing, we secured rejection of transcanada’s preferred route for the keystone xl pipeline through nebraska, a major setback for the project. the sierra club also took the trump administration to court over its approval of the pipeline, and our case is continuing to move forward in spite of attempts by the administration and transcanada to have it thrown out. regulations for methane emissions the sierra club’s legal team defeated attempts in 2017 to delay new rules that would limit methane pollution, a potent contributor to climate change. our diverse and powerful coalition of grassroots activists, labor partners, hunters and anglers, tribal leaders, faith leaders, and business owners continue to resist ongoing trump administration attempts to rollback critical methane safeguards. 250,000 people on outings in 2017, we led 250,000 people on outings including 14,000 veterans and 8,000 youth, connecting americans of all backgrounds to the outdoors. 200,000 marched in dc 200,000 people joined the people’s climate march in d.c. and thousands more marched in nearly 400 sister events across the world, bringing global attention to climate impacts on frontline communities and the need for quick and decisive action. women’s march twenty-five sierra club chapters recruited more than 3,000 participants for women’s marches around the country, marking trump’s first day in office with an undeniable show of solidarity and resistance. charlottesville rally after the horrific racial violence in charlottesville, virginia, the sierra club joined with local leaders in owensboro, kentucky, at a solidarity rally lifting up shared values of inclusivity, and justice, and condemning white supremacist hate. immigrant rights the sierra club took a strong stand in support of immigrant rights in 2017, supporting rallies and using its far-reaching communications to highlight the devastating environmental and human impacts of trump’s proposed border wall. tribal leadership the sierra club partnered with the native gwich’in people of alaska to protect the arctic wildlife refuge against exploitative industry interests. local leaders gathered thousands of public comments, landed wide-reaching media stories, and met with decision-makers to stop any plans to drill in this pristine wildlife haven. indigenous rights although the dakota access pipeline was ultimately built, the tribal-led movement it sparked has taken hold across the country, with indigenous rights at the forefront of the resistance against many illegal and unethical land grabs by extractive industries. beyond dirty fuels in spite of setbacks, the beyond dirty fuels team scored important victories in 2017. allying with community leaders, we laid the groundwork for rejection of the tesoro savage oil train terminal in washington state, the largest proposed terminal in north america.