 though she’s not yet 40 years old, mary anne hitt is a veteran in the fight against coal. “i grew up in east tennessee, near towns that are being devastated by mountaintop removal coal mining. i knew when i was very young that fighting for the mountains would be part of my life’s work.” the daughter of the former chief scientist for great smoky mountains national park, mary anne was raised to believe that protecting the environment is a top priority and that the way to do it is to engage people on the ground. she began her activism at the university of tennessee. “i was a co-founder of ‘speak’ (students promoting environmental action in knoxville), and as my senior thesis, a fellow student and i created a blueprint for making the campus more sustainable. the university is now an environmental leader and one of the leading consumers of green power in the south.” after graduation, mary anne continued to fight for the environment. she has been the executive director of three different organizations including the southern appalachian biodiversity project (now wild south), the ecology center in montana, and appalachian voices. she is thrilled to now be directing sierra club’s beyond coal campaign. “i was most impressed with the expertise of the staff and volunteers. to be in a leadership position in an organization that’s doing such big and important things is quite an honor.” of all the victories sierra club has achieved in the fight against coal, mary anne is proudest of the defeat of more than 100 coal plants and the big picture campaign, which calls for strong epa action on coal and global warming. “a lot of attention has been focused on legislation and congress, but the club was alone at the beginning of the obama administration in identifying the epa as an equally important authority. our supporters have been filling up the dockets with hundreds of thousands of comments and turning out by the hundreds to public hearings and as a result, the epa has strong public support as they move forward on several fronts, including smog, mercury, and global warming pollution.” in 2010, mary anne would like to see sierra club continue to lead—ending the rush to build new coal plants and helping the epa address the disposal of coal ash and mountaintop removal mining.