 for the first time in a long time, the planet is carbon neutral. this is big news! this is our window. through it we can see how our efforts to replace dirty fuels with clean energy and energy efficiency have made a difference. pause and consider... less than a decade ago, plans to build 150 new coal plants were all but certain. so were plans to move millions of barrels of tar sands oil across the country. there was little hope for curbing co2 emissions, even in the face of runaway global warming. today, coal is declining, the keystone xl pipeline is stalled, and global co2 emissions are flat . the promise of a clean energy future is finally here. it’s happening across the country and was visible in the streets of new york city, where the people’s climate march drew record participants. solar and wind are cost competitive. energy efficiency is working and creating jobs. all people, communities, businesses, animals, plants, and ecosystems stand to benefit from climate-resilient, low-carbon economies. un secretary-general ban ki-moon summed it up perfectly when he said, “governments and the private sector are uniting behind the message that there is no competition between economic growth, business success, and fighting climate change.” investments in the sierra club foundation (tscf), the sierra club, and our allies have made this diverse and growing environmental movement possible. in 2014, we dramatically increased our commitment to clean energy and launched an innovative fund to spur investment in clean energy solutions, while expanding our flagship beyond coal campaign and efforts to achieve environmental justice. furthermore, we doubled down on our long-standing commitment to wildlands protection and continued to provide meaningful outdoor experiences to people who need it most. we hope you take some time to consider this 2014 report and the progress your charitable dollars have made in the world. without you, none of this would be possible. our deepest thanks for your support!