 sierra club launched the big picture campaign in early 2009 to demonstrate decisive public support for president obama’s epa when it acted to address global warming and rein in the worst abuses of the coal industry. this regulatory push is an essential component of our work to retire existing coal plants, finally forcing the industry to pay the costs of pollution they have previously dumped on the public, closing regulatory loopholes that have given coal an unfair market advantage over clean energy for decades. crushing coal’s infrastructure building new railroads, power lines, and ports are strategies coal developers use to expand the markets for coal. sierra club fights these projects through a combination of local grassroots organizing, litigation, and national outreach. we won a great victory when dakota minnesota & eastern railroad (dm&e) suspended a proposal to extend a railroad 278 miles to access the powder river basin coal mines in northeastern wyoming. for ten years, sierra club had battled plans by dm&e to build the $6 billion railroad linking the wyoming coal fields to the mississippi river. the line was designed to move upwards of 65 coal trains daily, the equivalent of 100 million tons of coal annually—enough to power 50 coal plants emitting 200 million tons of carbon dioxide every year. chapter highlight clean air in utah in 2004, nevco applied for an air quality permit to build a conventional coal-fired power plant in sigurd, utah. even then, the proposed technology was outdated. the coal burner would have choked a narrow, mountain-rimmed valley close to capitol reef national park with smoke. partnering with sevier citizens for clean air and water (sccaw), the utah chapter organized or attended numerous public rallies and events, which involved hundreds of utah residents. over the years, the power plant controversy received significant media attention from local and national outlets including utah newspapers, high country news, and usa today. further, both utah chapter attorney joro walker, with western resource advocates and sccaw president jim kennon, spoke eloquently against the permit in court. the court invalidated the permit.