 each climate change victory starts with strong partners. here are a few of the partners at the root of the victories outlined in this report. coal > chuck frank’s family wanted to make an impactful gift to sierra club. “my mother wanted to keep it local. my wife has asthma. we used the funds to clean the air in northern illinois—finding violators of the clean air act, defeating 18 permits in a short period of time. we needed a full-time campaign director. enter bruce nilles. bruce wanted to stop a coal plant from being built. we did. to date, we’ve stopped 115.” clean energy solutions > cammy watkins started out working for headstart, where she found many children suffering from lead poisoning. that motivated cammy to help raise standards on building codes. “i wanted people who have energy efficiency and human health in mind to have their voices heard.” it’s worked. bringing record numbers of activists to meetings where building standards are set, 2009 saw the greatest increase in energy efficiency standards in history. green transportation > john holtzclaw was in europe when he discovered pedestrian-only streets. “this was like complete enlightenment to me” he exclaims, “that we could design streets for people instead of cars.” john later earned a ph.d. in urban sociology and now devotes his skills to building community-centric transportation alternatives, as the campaign’s volunteer leader. initiative to limit global greenhouse emissions > dr. donald kennedy’s deep interest in climate science arose from his work as editor of science magazine. when his term ended he considered “how my commitments to the climate change problem could be carried on.” in 2008, he became chair of the climate recovery partnership. “we can put the ‘boots on the ground’ to support significant change, and our grassroots membership structure has always made sierra club special.” resilient habitats > john nordgren, kresge foundation’s senior program director shared, “sierra club asked us if we would help initiate the resilient habitats campaign. usually, climate change dialog focuses on what happens 50 years down the road. but climate change is also changing the natural environment here and now. working in every state, the club has the presence, passion, and capacity, which means each of us can make a difference in the places that we care about. that’s the kresge foundation’s interest. sierra club is the right partner to make that happen.”