 green transportation 2009 was a tremendous year of action for both greenhouse gas emissions and fuel economy for new cars and light trucks. pushing for pavley in 2009, sierra club unveiled the results of a new online effort demonstrating public support for the california clean car (pavley) standards and the environmental protection agency’s review of the essential waiver needed to implement those standards. at the epa hearing, sierra club presented a photo petition from more than 1,000 sierra club members, student activists, and other concerned citizens from across the country who wanted to show their support but could not attend the hearing in person. each photo in the petition shows a sierra club supporter holding their own car keys to underscore the message that “epa holds the keys.” in addition to the petition, tens of thousands of sierra club activists submitted comments to the epa urging them to allow california and 13 other states to move forward. sierra club ran active campaigns pushing for adoption of the california standards in several states, including arizona, new mexico, washington, oregon, and others states. virtual clean car show in 2009, we launched an innovative online tool to show that a wide variety of cars, trucks, and suvs, from both foreign and domestic automakers, already meet the standards california and more than a dozen other states were seeking to implement. “this virtual clean car show demonstrated that automakers already have the technology to reduce global warming emissions from our vehicles,” says jesse prentice-dunn, sierra club green transportation program associate representative. “even some of the biggest trucks made by american automakers already meet the standards for the current year and beyond. setting high standards will not only help revitalize detroit by making it more competitive but will also make us more energy independent and fight global warming.” fueling a rev olution sierra club’s voice was also strong on biofuels. testifying at a hearing in washington, d.c. on the renewable fuels standards and in thousands of written comments, sierra club urged the epa to ensure that new standards measure the full emissions of biofuels, including those from indirect land use change. sierra club also actively supported president obama’s decision to set new fuel economy standards and issue the first national greenhouse gas standards under the clean air act. more than 50,000 sierra club members and supporters sent emails and letters to the president, while hundreds appeared at each of the three public hearings on the standards. sierra club’s call-to-action was heard. “i’m so glad to be part of an engaged chapter program because working locally is the best way to help folks understand how they can make a difference in their transportation choices.” the obama administration moved quickly to put vehicle emissions standards on a new path, reversing the bush administration decision to deny california the waiver it needed to implement the pavley clean car standard. we anticipate final national fuel economy and greenhouse gas standards in spring 2010. these standards will keep 960 million metric tons of co2 out of the atmosphere and save nearly 2 billion barrels of oil. chapter highlight north star chapter sierra club’s north star chapter fought and won a federal court case to block construction of a large bridge over the wild and scenic saint croix river about ten miles east of st. paul, on the wisconsin border. the wisconsin and minnesota departments of transportation and the federal highway administration had proposed the bridge to alleviate rush hour congestion in downtown stillwater, minnesota. sierra club’s victory in the case follows a 1996 lawsuit, during which sierra club stopped a similar ill-planned proposal. in winning the lawsuit, the club argued that the bridge would violate the wild and scenic rivers act. and, that’s true. but the project was also an assault on our fight against greenhouse gas emissions. building this bridge would open up rural wisconsin to massive sprawl and development, and the additional traffic would cause increased gas consumption. one of the proposed solutions to managing stillwater congestion is to increase express bus lines on interstate 94, just a few miles south of the proposed project site. sierra club is also working to promote commuter and inner-city rail service using north hudson rail bridge. these measures would significantly reduce traffic and the emission of greenhouse gasses.