 policy overhaul in the eu around the world,the system for regulating chemicals is extremely weak. it systematically fails to protect humans, wildlife, and ecosystems from the threats posed. under most national laws, chemicals are assumed innocent until proven guilty, placing the burden of proof on governments and civil society, rather than on the companies that create, manufacture, and market untested products. however, in the eu, a major overhaul of chemicals policy is being undertaken. the proposed reforms would reverse the presumption of innocence and require adequate health and environmental data as a precondition for selling chemicals in the world’s largest trading block. it would also usher in a system to phase out the most dangerous chemicals in favour of safer alternatives. wwf has played a major role in ensuring that this opportunity is realized and is continuing to promote a progressive, precautionary, and science-based chemicals policy. pesticides disposal in africa across the african continent, at least 50,000 tonnes of obsolete and extremely toxic pesticides have accumulated over the last 40 years. many of these chemicals and their containers are in poor condition, threatening the environment and the health of surrounding communities – often the poorest and most vulnerable – through the contamination of food, water, soil, and air. lack of regulation, insufficient information, untimely distribution, inadequate storage, and supply of unsuitable products are just some of the key factors that contribute towards these stockpiles. and although certain problems are being addressed, many developing countries do not possess the financial and technical means to safely dispose of obsolete pesticides. the concept of a continent-wide clean-up programme grew out of infor- mal discussions between wwf and several intergovernmental organizetions. the africa stockpiles programme (asp) aims to clean up and safely dispose of obsolete pesticide stocks within ten to fifteen years and help prevent future accumulation. until now, less than 3,000 tonnes of old pesticides have been destroyed over a ten-year period, largely owing to lack of funds.with up to one third of the needed us$250 million provided by the global environment facility, wwf and its partners – the african development bank, the pesticide action network, the world bank, and the united nations food and agri- culture organisation among others – will start removing and destroying the pesticides. this huge undertaking will also help in the development of new disposal techniques. a website – www.africastockpiles.org – provides more detail on the programme. russia commits to phase-out hard work by wwf and other organi- zations in russia led,in may,to the signing by the russian government of the stockholm convention, a landmark treaty which aims to phase out some of the most dangerous chemicals on earth. while russia still needs to ratify the convention, their decision to sign was a major step toward addressing serious toxic pollution in the country. as a heavily industrialized country and a major producer of organic chemicals, russia faces a variety of threats from toxic contamination. huge volumes of ddt and other, now banned, chemicals were widely used for agricul- tural production from the 1960s to the 1980s and there are approximately 20,000 tonnes of discarded pesticide stockpiles. in addition, toxic pcbs are leaking from thousands of outdated electrical goods dumped or being destroyed without proper environmental controls. the stockholm convention not only provides international assistance for dealing with contamination issues, but also helps countries move to envi- ronmentally safe alternatives. ships for the future since the mid-1960s, organotin compounds such as tributyltin (tbt) have been used in “anti-fouling” paints to repel barnacles and algae from ships’ hulls. in the 1970s, evidence of their toxicity and subsequent effects on marine life began to mount. finally, in october 2001, the world’s shipping nations, through the international mar- itime organization (imo), called for a ban on these lethal chemicals. the imo decision sent a clear message that these chemicals are no longer acceptable and will force the paint industry to stop producing, marketing, and selling organotin paints. the world’s largest supplier of paints for the shipping industry, international coatings ltd, reacted almost immediately by announcing it would phase out their range of tbt paints by the end of 2002. at the same time, wwflaunched its “2003 group”, a voluntary group of concerned ship owners committed to making their fleets free of tbt-based paints by 31 december 2002. its founding members are hamburg süd and hapag lloyd cruises from germany, and the nordic wallenius lines and wallenius-wilhelmsen lines. “this group obliterates the myth that phasing out tbt is impossible because there are no efficient alternatives,” said dr simon walmsley, wwf marine pollution officer. “these companies are maintaining their position in a competitive market despite going organotin-free.their commitment, and that of international coatings ltd, will help eliminate a large amount of the contaminants going into the marine environment.”