 as the world moves forward in addressing climate change, the role of forests in storing carbon is getting more attention. now it is time to fi gure out how to cover the costs of keeping that carbon in the trees and soils of the world’s remaining forests. deforestation is well known as one of the earth’s most serious environmental problems, accounting for tragic loss of biodiversity and disruption or degradation of ecological processes such as water fl ows, not to mention the loss of habitat and livelihoods for forest peoples. surprisingly, many people still are not aware that deforestation, primarily of natural rain forests, also accounts for about 20 percent of all human-induced carbon emissions, making it second only to fossil fuels as a source of atmospheric carbon. thus, stopping deforestation is critical to the success of any new global deal on climate change. thanks to a decade of advocacy, education, and improving technology for measuring and monitoring forest carbon, there is now widespread political support in both developed and developing countries for redd, reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation. the consensus is lagging, however, on an important issue: how to pay for it. estimates vary, but most experts agree that we must mobilize tens of billions of dollars between now and 2020 if we are to change the destructive patterns of economic activity that are wiping out the rain forests at an alarming rate. the costs of redd there are basically two large “costs” of redd that need to be fi nanced. there are the start-up costs of building capacity in the forest countries to plan, measure and monitor the carbon and to carry out early demonstration projects. and there are the operating costs of compensating the forest countries and forest communities for carbon sequestration, the opportunity cost of not cutting down their rain forests for fuel, wood products or agriculture. to mobilize those billions, the world will need various sources of funds, both public and private, that are large and sustainable, and a system of rules and institutions to make sure that the funds pay for real results. the world cannot afford to waste time or fi nancing on emission reductions that turn out to be nothing more than “hot air” or are reversed a few years later due to natural disasters or lack of enforcement. the call for public and private funds public funds from the developed countries are critical to kick-starting redd, whether they come through general revenues or from a portion of the revenues from auctioning emission permits.