 transforming conservation: the amazon a momentous undertaking is under way to transform conservation in brazil. the amazon region protected areas (arpa) programme aims to ensure comprehensive protection of 50 million hectares, or 12 per cent of the brazilian amazon – an area about twice the size of the united kingdom, and 50 per cent more than the us national park system. through its geographic scope and financial ambitions, the arpa programme redefines place-based conservation. partners in sustainable development over a ten-year period, the programme, developed by the government of brazil in partnership with wwf and other stakeholders, will create and support a system of protected areas and reserves where natural resources are sustainably managed. a trust fund will generate sufficient income to support effective management of these areas over the long term. since its formation in 2003, the programme has set world- class standards for innovation and cooperation involving multiple sectors of society, and has produced outstanding conservation results ahead of schedule. arpa is playing a key role in ensuring that future development in the amazon region can take place on a solid environmental footing. first results by the end of 2006, less than four years since its inception, arpa has created over 23.5 million hectares of new parks and reserves, among them the tumucumaque mountains national park. conceived by wwf and the brazilian institute of environment and renewable natural resources, this 3.9 million-hectare park – roughly the size of switzerland – is the world's largest tropical forest national park and home to several threatened species, including jaguars, macaws, and harpy eagles. keeping the heart of borneo beating the “heart of borneo” is one of the last major tropical rainforests in southeast asia and one of the most biologically diverse habitats on earth. this predominantly mountainous area, shared by brunei, indonesia, and malaysia, is the source of the island’s major rivers. but despite its importance, plans were announced in july 2005 to create the “world’s biggest oil palm plantation”, which would effectively rip the forest heart out of borneo. lobbying at the highest levels wwf focused on finding a solution, even arranging a private meeting between wwf director general james leape and indonesian president susilo bambang yudhoyono. much of the intended land was in fact too steep, high, and infertile for oil palm, but a wwf study revealed a viable alternative: an area three times greater than the proposed plantation which was not only more suitable but also considered “idle land”. by working together with eight government ministries, the palm oil sector, and other ngos, we succeeded in halting this destructive 1.8 million-hectare project before forest clearing could begin. in march 2006, the launch by indonesia, malaysia, and brunei of the heart of borneo initiative at the meeting of the un convention on biological diversity confirmed the indonesian government’s commitment to the conservation and sustainable development of the area – another example of how presenting “win-win” solutions to political and commercial interests can bring tangible results where confrontation alone is likely to fail.