 technology and innovation have long been a part of wwf’s work. in 1973, wwf granted $38,000 to the smithsonian institution to study the tiger population of nepal’s chitwan national park, allowing scientists to successfully use radio tracking devices for the first time. this represented cuttingedge technology when it happened and was celebrated as such. today, we use camera traps to record tiger—and elephant, and rhino, and more—movements, and the data collected informs nationwide tiger censuses in nepal, bhutan, and elsewhere. the early innovation used in chitwan led to the systems that today allow us to move closer to our goal of doubling the number of wild tigers by 2022. in a 1984 new york times editorial, wwf vice president dr. thomas e. lovejoy set forth the concept of “debt-fornature swaps”—trading debt reduction in developing countries for their protection of the environment. it was an innovative idea that quickly caught on and persists today. more than $2.6 billion in debt has been restructured through debt-for-nature swaps, resulting in upwards of $1.2 billion in conservation funding globally. google is one of our key tech partners. several years ago, we received $5 million through their global impact award program. through this grant, google sought to encourage us to adopt a more fast-moving, prototyping, entrepreneurial approach to solving a vexing problem at hand—in this case, wildlife crime. this sparked trial and error and experimentation, and freed us from the stress of finding the perfect solution within a tight window of time lest we lose much-needed support. it also encouraged the spread of the same mindset in our work. we used the grant to fund the wildlife crime technology project, a platform to create and test innovative technologies aimed at changing the course of the global fight against wildlife crime. while an initial focus was on piloting the use and integration of several technologies (including drones) in namibia, it became clear following the project’s initial phase that we needed to adapt our approach. we pivoted from a top-down, technology-driven approach to a bottomup, problem-driven approach that led to the serial testing, evolution, and adaptation of different solutions to the poaching crisis. at wwf, we now plan, iterate, and catalyze change just like breathing air, and always in collaboration with our partners on the ground. and since so much of what we do involves working with communities around the world—from the amazon to the irrawaddy delta—to secure or develop the tools they need to save landscapes and species and improve livelihoods, we build our technological innovations in collaboration with end users—from the field to the lab, from the ground up. perhaps the most important lesson we’ve learned over the decades of incorporating technology into our work is not to fall in love with technology for technology’s sake. flashy is interesting but not always sustainable. any technology we consider for use on the ground must be durable enough, simple enough, effective enough, and repairable enough to make a real-world difference. after all, a farmer in a remote village in madagascar isn’t likely to be able to fund, or find, exotic technological components to make a rapidly needed fix. that’s true even today, in a world tom friedman described over a decade ago as “flat” because rapid advances in technology and communication were connecting people in a whole new way. today, the world is only getting flatter, and this increasing connectedness has its challenges and its advantages. one of the advantages is that people have greater access to tools that can improve their economic potential. in friedman’s own words, “when the world is flat, you can innovate” from anywhere. but among the many challenges, these technologies can make it easier for others to exploit and deplete the planet’s finite supply of natural resources; for example, by selling elephant ivory and tiger parts online and thereby driving demand and further threatening already-fragile species populations. there are so many forces in the world using technology and innovation toward other ends—for profit, illegal and otherwise; for power; for market share. it’s time that we were just as fast and skilled and competent in deploying those same tools to keep intact the planet and the resources upon which we all depend. as conservationists, we are getting better at putting challenges on the table with the many technology partners that we have and engaging their talented teams in conceiving and deploying technology and innovation to match the scale of change in the world around us. to outrun and outsmart the poachers. to help inform and adapt the supply chains of the world’s largest companies. to work with governments at every level to monitor their countries’ precious biodiversity and to link outcomes and investments to protect their natural resources. a flat world means that in just eight weeks we can collect 270,000 signatures in support of the endangered species act. a flat world means that through the power of the global wwf network, we can let more than 5 million supporters around the world know that we are still all in on climate action—and we need them to join us. a flat world means we can test blockchain, machine learning, social media, and monitoring technologies that are desperately needed to save species, fisheries, forests, coral reefs, and more. and a flat world means our best practitioners are more directly connected to the world’s best problem solvers, so we can put our minds together, in real time, to develop and deploy innovative solutions to the most pressing problems facing nature and people today. we must embrace the spectacular possibilities for linking humanity in support of nature that a flat world affords. after all, that is what wwf was born to do: to inspire, compel, and galvanize technical skills, monetary resources, and political influence across the world to save those places we hold most dear. at wwf, we are impatient for change to secure this planet that is our home. we won’t rest until it happens. and we are profoundly grateful for our partners and supporters helping to make it so.