 wwf is one of the world’s largest and most effective independent organizations dedicated to the conservation of nature. its mission is to stop, and eventually reverse, the damage to the planet’s natural environment and build a future in which humans live in harmony with nature. conserving the world’s biological diversity, making sure the use of renewable natural resources is sustainable in the long term, and promoting the reduction of pollution and wasteful consumption are the paths wwf is taking to achieve this ambitious goal. today, the organization operates in more than 90 countries, supported by nearly five million people worldwide. its initials and famous panda logo have become a powerful rallying point for those who care about the future of the planet and want to help shape it in a positive way. the organization’s success and reputation have been built around a factual, science-based approach to conservation, which focuses on six priority issues of global concern: forests, fresh water, oceans and coasts, threatened species, and the insidious threats of toxic chemicals and climate change. for each of these issues, wwf maintains highly focused programmes with measurable targets, summarized in the following pages. to reach these targets, wwf runs more than 1,200 on-the- ground projects around the world in any year. backing up this work at the frontline are hard-hitting campaigns, wherever possible involving the general public, and designed to bring about a particular outcome – such as stopping the overfishing of european waters (see page 18). wwf’s 3,800 dedicated and professional staff, many of whom come from the corporate sector and have chosen to use their expertise for the good of the earth, sometimes working in difficult and dangerous conditions, help to get maximum mileage out of the approximately us$260 million that wwf spends annually on its global conservation work. saving special places recognizing that local conservation problems often have their roots in wider social and economic issues, which influence how people use and consume resources and affect the environment, wwf increasingly focuses on areas whose boundaries are defined by nature – what wwf terms “ecoregions”. these may be tropical forests or wetlands spanning one or more countries, or entire coral reef systems such as the mesoamerican caribbean reef which extends 700 kilometres from the tip of the yucatan peninsula in mexico south to the bay islands off the coast of honduras. wwf has identified some 200 such places – the “global 200 ecoregions” – which contain the best part of the world’s remaining biological diversity, and which must be protected if we are to leave a living planet for future generations. wwf alone cannot save all of them, so the organization has chosen a representative selection of 40 for which to develop action plans. ambitious, broad-scale, and involving partners from all sectors, these plans combine environmental, economic, and social actions to conserve or restore the biodiversity of an entire ecoregion. four of the ecoregions in which wwf is working are described in this report. action for a living planet launched in 1996, the “gift to the earth” is wwf’s highest accolade for the significant conservation work of others. it provides international recognition and support to a government, a company, or an individual. by october 2002, 79 gifts had been recognized by wwf. among the most recent was the declaration in june by the azores of two marine protected areas conserving unique and fragile life forms on the deep-sea floor of the atlantic ocean (see page 18). an earlier gift, in march, recognized the achievement of the forestry chamber of bolivia in gaining forest stewardship council certification (see page 20) for 1 million hectares of tropical forests. getting the message across wwf’s award-winning website – www.panda.org – is an immensely powerful tool for awareness-raising and activism. some 200,000 people visit the website every month. in addition, over the past twelve months, 300,000 online actions were taken by concerned individuals through wwf’s “panda passport” campaigning site. for example, over 17,000 electronic messages urged the new zealand minister of fisheries to protect the north island hector’s dolphin, the world’s rarest marine dolphin. wwf wants the government to close the dolphin’s entire habitat to commercial and recreational fishing and urgently develop a recovery plan. a decision is pending. however, some 7,000 e-mails helped convince malaysia’s state government to call off plans to kill all tigers in kelantan and to work with wwf to resolve the human-tiger conflicts at the heart of the problem. indo-chinese tigers are gravely endangered, numbering fewer than 600 in malaysia and 2,000 worldwide. wwf’s press and video news releases are taken seriously by the international media, bringing conservation stories of the moment to the front pages of newspapers and television news programmes around the world. the wwf network since its foundation as a non-profit organization under swiss law in 1961, wwf’s network of offices has grown steadily to cover most regions of the world (see insert). a number of associate organizations have also adopted wwf’s mission and principles. at the heart of this global network is the international secretariat based in gland, switzerland. it identifies and monitors emerging conservation concerns, manages the international conservation programme, guides wwf’s position on international issues, coordinates worldwide campaigns, communications, gifts to the earth, and fundraising activities, and builds global partnerships. the rest of the wwf network contributes expertise and funding to the international conservation programme. activities range from practical field projects and scientific research to advising on environmental policy, promoting environmental education, and raising public understanding of environmental issues. two specialist offices in washington and brussels work to influence institutions which deal with global economic issues, such as the world bank and the global environment facility (gef), and the policies and activities of the european union.