 certifying forests. during 2001, important advances were made under the forest stewardship council (fsc) scheme, by which forests are certified as being managed to the highest economic,environmental, and social standards. in april, romania’s president ion illiescu announced that his country would adopt fsc practices, starting with a trial area of 32,000 hectares.by october, that commitment had risen to an impressive 1 million hectares. other countries in central and eastern europe, such as bulgaria, croatia, estonia, hungary, latvia, russia, and slovakia, are also set to pursue fsc certifications.the latvian government, for example, has agreed to adopt fsc standards on public lands, representing two-thirds of all forested land in the country. the certification of 140,658 hectares of native forest located in the municipal district of paragominas, in the state of pará, brazil, has increased by 20 per cent the certified forest area in the brazilian amazon. the move, by forest owners cikel brasil verde sa, brings the total area of forests under sustainable management in brazil to 870,511 hectares. more certified forest products the number of products made from fsc-certified timber continues to rise.towards the end of 2000, the uk’s bbc worldwide publishing group announced that bbc wildlife magazine would be the world’s first consumer magazine to carry the fsc logo. nicholas brett,director of bbcworldwide, said: “we are proud to be the first publisher in the world to have used fsc-certified paper for one of our titles and would urge our colleagues throughout the magazine industry to do the same. as more paper becomes available we intend to migrate all of our 37 bbc titles onto fsc-certified stock.”the bbc uses some 50,000 tonnes of paper per year for its publications. bbc worldwide were one of the first companies to join the forest and trade network in the uk. other networks are now operating in north america, austria, australia, belgium, brazil, france, germany, the nordic countries (denmark, finland, norway, and sweden), the netherlands, spain, and switzerland, with japan and hong kong soon to join.these networks are dedicated to sourcing, producing, and investing in independently certified products from well- managed forests. in all, some 700 companies now belong, and over 20,000 products carrying the fsc logo are available on the market. restoring forest landscapes. many countries are suffering from deforestation, which damages watersheds, erodes the soil, and disrupts climate. forest landscape restoration is a new concept developed under the joint wwf/iucn “forests reborn” project, which aims to restore once-forested land to a more authentic state. it encompasses social, economic, ecological, and technological aspects and involves people and organizations at all levels. restoration includes tree-planting, improving the quality of damaged forests, and natural regeneration – leaving landscapes to recover unaided. restoration projects are already underway in the kinabatangan floodplain in sabah, malaysia, and the lower danube islands in bulgaria. oth- ers are planned in china, east africa, and the mediterranean. certified tourism. in april, wwf and the pan parks foundation launched a new project giving tourists the opportunity to help protect the endangered primeval forest of poland’s bialowieza national park by booking a “green adventure” on-line. the pan parks initiative, created by wwf, is designed to develop a european network of well-managed, protected wilderness areas which promote sustainable tourism as a tool for better nature conservation.