 we never do anything alone. not one of our best accomplishments this year rests entirely on wwf’s shoulders. more often than not our best work represents an act of co-creation—of partners bringing their separate talents and resources together to devise a solution at scale. when it happens it is sheer alchemy that solves the problems we face. but our problems only grow in scale and complexity. wwf’s 2014 living planet report, a biennial assessment of the world’s ecological vital signs, delivers the grim news: since 1970 a representative set of mammal populations has fallen in number by 52%. causes of the decline include increased habitat destruction, unsustainable resource extraction and climate change. we see the lpr as a progress report on our success as a conservation organization, and the takeaway this year was undeniable. while we were absolutely winning some battles, we were losing the war. so we took a breath, looked around at other organizations who were bending larger trends through innovation, and then we made a major pivot. in parts of our organization we began behaving more like a silicon valley start-up and less like a venerable conservation organization. where once we relied on detailed five-year work plans, we now invested our discretionary resources in a fast-moving pipeline of “disruptive ideas.” generous donors and some hard decisions internally provided the seed capital—a $10 million annual innovation fund—for the most promising ideas. nonprofits rarely make changes as sweeping as this without a financial crisis forcing their hand. for us, the crisis wasn’t financial. it was planetary. there was a time not long ago when belonging and affiliation meant a great deal to people. church service groups, bowling leagues, rotary clubs and mason lodges knit together energy and resolve for local causes. that sense of belonging inspired like-minded individuals to act and led in some cases to great, society-enhancing accomplishments. wwf stands tall in this proud tradition. when our founders first dreamed of wwf, they likely never imagined they were starting an organization that would capture people’s imaginations for decades. we’ve built a global membership of 5 million people, and this legion of strong supporters remains one of our finest assets. people around the world have grown up with childhood memories of wwf—selling wwf stamps, participating in our pennies for pandas campaign, displaying a panda sticker on the bumper of the family car—that remain indelible throughout their lives. for many, wwf is still a touchstone, and it means something: trust, values that rely more on collaboration than confrontation, devotion to our cause. and, undeniably, results. now, the 21st century and social media have ushered in a new set of trends. younger generations respond less to formal affiliation and gravitate to supporting stand-alone causes and initiatives to get things done. the same is true of some sectors of philanthropy. increasingly, successful individuals, along with foundations and corporations, see giving as a tool to confront and mitigate some of the biggest problems of our day. and they’re not content to simply give their money to an institution they trust and then walk away. they want to use the same persistence, creativity, connections and smarts that enabled them to build their wealth in the first place to achieve results. this model has become a major force at wwf, and in almost every instance our best work is an act of co-creation. take arpa (the amazon region protected areas program), for example. wwf, the moore foundation, the world bank, the governments of brazil and germany, and current wwf board members larry linden and roger sant came together 15 years ago in support of declaring 10% of the amazon as new protected areas and financing their conservation in perpetuity. this group led the charge in setting aside 150 million acres—the size of california, one and a half times over— then came back together just this past may 21 to call in all commitments and fully finance those parks. now this model of permanent financing is inspiring other multi-landscape projects around the world. take our work in nepal’s bardia national park with the leonardo dicaprio foundation. together we’ve co-financed the boots on the ground, community capacity, and monitoring and surveillance that laid the foundation for the near- tripling of tiger numbers in that far-flung park in western nepal. we’ve also collaborated on social media, generating 1.5 million signatures and a joint op-ed that led the prime minister of thailand to commit to ending the illegal ivory trade in her country. and then there’s our program in myanmar. we traveled there with the helmsley charitable trust in october 2012, when the country first opened to outsiders after five decades of military rule. wwf had worked in the greater mekong region for more than 20 years, and we were keen to help protect the almost unfathomable natural wealth found within myanmar’s borders. thanks to partnerships at every level of society we are doing just that. and just last month, i joined our friends from the helmsley trust in cutting the ribbon on the new wwf office in yangon. on the same trip we met with president u thein sein and his cabinet to discuss mapping natural capital and continuing to support sustainable forms of development and the growth of a green economy in myanmar. as you read this annual report it will become clear that succeeding in conservation is not all about wwf. the urgency of our mission dictates that reality. for us, realizing the audacious goals we have set means it must be about our staff and our institution having both the skill and the humility to work side by side with others. it means being willing to share the ideas as well as the limelight. john muir wrote that “one touch of nature makes the whole world kin.” we all belong to the family of humanity. and working together, we will co-create the solutions our planet so desperately needs.