 campaigning at cites patagonian toothfish, one of the most valuable fish on earth, was one of a number of species for which wwf campaigned for greater protection under the cites convention at the november 2002 meeting of member countries. the patagonian toothfish fetches as much as us$60 per kilogram on the japanese market and up to us$40 on the european and us markets where it is usually sold under the name of chilean sea bass. currently, international regulation is inadequate to prevent “pirate” fishermen from catching up to four times the legal catch of the fish and then selling it to the legal market. the toothfish is acutely vulnerable because it grows slowly to a length of two metres and does not start to breed until over six years old. in some areas of the pacific the toothfish has declined by as much as 99 per cent. by strengthening international wildlife protection laws through con- ventions such as cites, catches can be regulated and fish stocks better man- aged to meet global market demands. wwf’s work on the patagonian tooth- fish shows that sustainable development and species conservation can go hand in hand. africa’s great apes africa is home to four of the six species of great apes.all four are endangered, in particular the mountain gorilla, of which about 650 individuals survive in two groups. these great apes face a number of threats. each year, illegal hunting and trade account for 3,000 to 6,000 apes – killed for their meat. logging of forests in west and central africa continues to reduce habitat, and roads built through forests allow easier access for poachers. apes are susceptible to many of the same viruses and parasites as humans and have suffered as a result. in gombe national park in tanzania, for instance, scabies, pneumonia, and gut parasites have caused an almost 40 per cent decline in chimpanzees.and with increasing human expansion, people and apes are coming into conflict more regularly, with apes raiding crops and being killed as a result. in 2002, wwf renewed its efforts to counter these threats and save the continent’s dwindling numbers of primates. protection of the apes’ forest home is one priority, along with winning community support for their conservation, strengthening the numbers and the training of park guards and staff, lobbying for stronger laws to protect the species, reducing illegal trade, and increasing public awareness – particularly among the young – of the plight in which africa’s great apes find themselves. fighting for whales in spite of the ban on commercial whaling imposed by the international whaling commission (iwc),more than 1,300 whales are being killed each year, and the number is rising.wwf is trying hard to get this either stopped or brought under tight control. at the 2002 iwc meeting in the japanese whaling port of shimonoseki, wwf helped ensure that the pro-whaling nations, especially japan and norway, were outvoted in their attempts to resume commercial whaling. the meeting, however, was notable for its blatant political games. furious at their failure to obtain a commercial quota of minke whales, japan and its group of supporting countries managed to deny the alaskan inuit and russian chukotkans their legitimate traditional annual hunt of a small number of bowhead whales – which they depend upon for their subsistence. better news came from the south pacific where wwf’s successful campaign to encourage pacific island nations to declare their exclusive eco- nomic zones (eez) as whale sanctuaries gathered pace. the cook islands, niue, french polynesia, papua new guinea, and samoa,as well as mexico, were among countries which,together, brought the total area of eez sanctuaries in the pacific close to 12 million square kilometres. png’s prime minister sir mekere morauta said: “papua new guinea’s waters cover migratory routes and may contain important breeding grounds for whales.our decision will help pro- tect some of the whale species that are at risk from commercial hunting.” giant panda corridors a wwf project in china is aiming to create new panda reserves, preventing large areas of continuous habitat from being broken up, and establishing “green” corridors linking protected areas in the qinling mountains of shaanxi province.the qinling mountains are extremely rich in wildlife and are home to a number of endan- gered species, such as the golden mon- key, crested ibis, golden eagle, and clouded leopard – as well as being one of the few remaining areas where wild ecoregion pandas live. “qinling is expected to become the first network of protected areas that enables the free movement of – and genetic exchange between – different groups of giant pandas,” said wu haohan, wwf’s qinling project leader. “the experience gained in qinling can be used in other panda areas as well as for other animals facing the same fragmentation of their habitat. porpoise in peril. the number of harbour porpoises in the north sea was estimated in 1994 at between 267,000 and 465,000, with fewer than 600 in the baltic sea. how many animals remain today is unknown but, with at least 7,000 dying every year in nets set on the sea-floor to catch cod, turbot, and plaice, con- cerns for the future of the mammal are rising. wwf’s plan to save the species includes halting fishing in areas of high accidental “by-catch”, the use of “pingers” (boxes attached to fishing nets which emit a sound that discourages porpoises from entering the net), and a reduction in the use of deadly gill nets in the north sea. a first step will be a new survey to establish their current distribution and numbers.