 successful conservation, fueled by inspiration and conviction, can transcend boundaries and cultures and generations. and as wwf approaches its 50th anniversary, we’ve learned along the way that conservation can also build on tradition while transforming national attitudes toward responsibility. this is particularly true when conservation is embraced by local leaders from the public and private sectors. wwf has worked in mexico, one of the five most biologically diverse countries in the world, for more than 40 years. we’ve built a legacy of innovation that stretches from the gulf of california to michoacán to the yucatan, and our success has been fortified by close partnerships with the national government and local communities. for years we’ve dreamed of engaging the business sector as well. we now have the opportunity of a lifetime to unite these stakeholders in a groundbreaking effort to redefine conservation in mexico. last year, under the leadership of wwf-mexico executive director omar vidal, we began a highly consultative process that engaged more than 100 stakeholders from across the country – a diverse group including indigenous community leaders, businesspeople, nobel laureates, scientists, former cabinet ministers and local citizens. all shared a common goal: redefining a nation’s approach to conservation. president felipe calderόn, a strong leader on climate change and forestry issues, was already thinking about how to recast mexico as a global leader in sustainable development. calderόn and his environment minister, juan elvira quesada, have made major commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and establish protected areas throughout the country. too often the private sector – frequently an engine for environmental destruction – is missing from our work in the developing world. but in mexico, years of partnership with telecommunications leader telcel gave us a foundation from which to engage company founder carlos slim and his family in this national effort. and while slim was just appointed by un secretary-general ban ki-moon to a un advisory panel on climate change, his deepest commitment is to mexico. so he has joined us in redefining sustainability – not only through his philanthropic investments in fisheries, agriculture, ecotourism and protected areas but also by rethinking business investments in the same arenas. and so earlier this year, in quintana roo, mexico, we announced alianza mexico, a $100 million initiative that will redefine not only a nation’s approach to conservation but also global perceptions of what public-private partnerships can do. working across six landscapes that encompass 30 percent of mexico, the alianza will address issues ranging from climate change to species conservation to illegal logging and fishing. of course, it is by no means a foregone conclusion that we’ll achieve success in every place we work. but when the stars align – as they have in mexico – it’s worth everything to channel resources, effort and will toward such breathtaking opportunity. this is how we can transform the world – and ourselves.