 one thing is certain—our work in conservation is all about balance: between people and land, landscapes and livelihoods, animals and ecosystems. at wwf, as we reflect on 50 years of conservation achievement and look ahead to the next 50, we continue to pursue balance between humanity and the planet that sustains and inspires us all. the question is: how to get there? because conservation is a living discipline, our understanding of it always evolves. when wwf was created in 1961, the plight of threatened species moved our founders. species remain our point of entry to our work, but from there we’ve learned that in order to save species, habitat must also be conserved, and so our approach evolved to include protected areas. that led to ecoregional planning, which evolved to incorporate community planning as well. and that led over time to our markets work, because threats to these ecoregions—such as the ever-increasing demand for commodities—were inevitably leading to more habitat destruction. and a reality cutting across everything we do is climate change. this past year, particularly, has been a case study in how conservation evolves. wwf’s markets program has emerged to become an essential part of almost every effort we undertake—whether it’s restoring productive fisheries in mozambique, developing standards for sustainable soy production in the amazon while also providing economic stability for local communities, or working with top companies to green their supply chains. and precisely because of this evolution toward markets- focused conservation and our demonstrated track record of success, wwf has become an internationally recognized leader in developing the tools and initiatives necessary to tip global markets to sustainability. but looking ahead, we realize that conservation can’t just be executed by well-known international nonprofits like wwf. success will depend enormously on partnerships, our membership, political support and the broad support of the populations we work with—so we must think about how to strengthen the conservation movement more broadly. the changes that are required to conserve biodiversity and help save nature on the planet we love and upon which we depend require—indeed, cannot be accomplished without—popular support. the people of the planet truly control its future. and so for these conservation programs to truly succeed, people must be engaged broadly, and there has to be political and heartfelt support in sufficiently large numbers all around the world.