 climate treaty signed/ the world took an enormous step towards tack- ling climate change when, in july, ministers from 178 countries meeting in bonn, germany reached a ground-breaking agreement to finalize the rules of the kyoto protocol.among industrialized nations, only the usa opted out. wwf described the agreement as an historic victory for the climate and for common sense, and immediately called on countries to ratify the treaty with the utmost speed. wwf had campaigned long and hard for the treaty, following the stalled climate talks in the hague, netherlands, in november 2000. in the usa, wwf ran a campaign to prevent the bush administration from blocking other countries from moving forward with the protocol. in europe,public opinion polls were commissioned in belgium, italy, spain, and the uk to demon- strate public support for the european union moving ahead without the us. and in japan, wwf staged a large symposium in tokyo with keynote speakers from the intergovernmental panel on climate change. it also indicated how japan could meet its reduction target for carbon emissions and placed an advertisement signed by over 60 ngos worldwide in the country’s largest business newspaper, asking prime minister koizumi to back the treaty. wwf also threw its weight behind the “e-mission 55 – business for climate” initiative mounted by the european business council for sustainable energy.the goal was to persuade 55 leading companies to back the kyoto protocol. by the time of the bonn negotiations, more than 90 companies from nine countries – including the us and japan – had declared their support. while the eventual deal was weaker than wwf had hoped, it provides the basis for setting co2 emissions from industrialized countries on a downward trend.by reaching an agreement, governments have finally started to listen to their citizens, who have long been appealing for action. “in the battle against global warming, this first small step is a giant leap for humanity and for the future of our planet,” said wwf’s jennifer morgan. going for green energy. wwf has been actively engaged in the search for renewable energy in the netherlands.in collaboration with major dutch electricity distribution companies, wwf organized a national campaign to promote green electricity – generated from solar,wind,and biomass sources – as a solution to climate change. in the campaign, wwf warned that global warming is already threatening ecosystems around the world – in particular the arctic. under the slogan “don’t let the arctic melt; go for green energy!”, wwf presented green electricity as the easiest way for consumers to help curb global warming. green electricity is now available nation- wide in holland, following its introduction in 1995. wwf ensures that the premium paid for it (5-10 per cent more than “normal” electricity) is invested in renewable energy. at the start of the campaign, in september 2000, 100,000 dutch households were subscribing to green electricity – three weeks later a further 20,000 households had applied. today, some 200,000 homes use green electricity and the number continues to rise. melting permafrost. a report by russian scientists presented at the wwf-sponsored arctic climate impact assessment conference in st-petersburg, russia, in june, shows that vast expanses of siberian tundra are thawing – additional evidence of the impacts of global warming on the arctic. the new study by the russian academy of sciences reveals that water flows in russia’s major river systems, such as the yenisey and the lena, have significantly increased as a result of melting permafrost (soil and rock held together by ice, often to great depths).the scientists cite the increase of average temperatures in recent years as the reason for the phenomenon. “the meltdown of the russian tundra will have grave consequences for people and the environment,” said stefan norris of wwf’s arctic programme. “for example, settlements built on seemingly solid ground may simply disappear under the mud, leaving many homeless.” increased fresh water flowing into the sea will also change the salinity of the arctic ocean, destroying habitats for existing species, and introducing new and changing sea currents. wwf took the report to the tenth meeting of the arctic council in rovaniemi, finland, where wwf international director general claude martin called on officials to put pressure on their respective governments to contribute to the finalization of the kyoto protocol.the member countries of the arctic council are canada, denmark, finland, iceland, norway, russia, sweden, and the usa.