 at times, it seems the environmental movement reduces itself to numbers and prices and markets and other measures of success, or the lack thereof. i know the saying goes that if we can’t measure something, we won’t be able to save it. and while numbers can certainly be inspirational, i’d argue that the truth is more nuanced than that. make no mistake: i am absolutely devoted to delivering results that last, at a scale commensurate with the challenges we are facing. but i also love the words and imagery that motivate so many of us who have made conservation our life’s work—from muir to matthiessen, from carson and stegner to bierstadt, cousteau, and ansel adams. because the sublime beauty and genius of creation, or evolution, exceeds our grasp, inspires and humbles us, and reminds us that we cannot afford to lead our lives in a way that ravages the planet and drives other species to extinction. side by side with the poetry of our work and the beauty of the planet we seek to save, our work is existential; we all want to leave something behind after we’re gone. but it is important to be honest with ourselves about the real difference we’re making for the planet. are we changing the trends that are leading to the planet’s destruction? are we building movements that lead to people consuming less, producing more, voting differently, in a way that positively impacts the planet we all share? those results often—but not always—can be measured by numbers. and, as i’ve said, numbers can be inspirational. whether that’s acres protected, or parts per million of co2 in the air, or the increased population of fish in the ocean, or the number of tigers that still remain in the wild. and we sometimes get far away from that kind of specificity in the language we use to talk about our work. but if we are to honor the trust that our donors and investors put in us, and make a real difference with the gift of their hard-won money, we must hold ourselves accountable in this regard. conservation does not yield results within anything resembling a predictable time frame. but there are those moments when things come together at a scale that matters. on those occasions, you can mark the date and you can measure the impact in a way that is unequivocal. luckily, the world has seen many such events. for example, the set-aside in 1872 of 2,219,776 acres in montana, wyoming, and idaho as yellowstone national park—the world’s first national park. that audacious act not only preserved a landscape that lives large in the hearts and minds of americans; it also created a movement that quickly became global. now there are nearly 7,000 national parks in more than 100 countries around the world. it’s also hard to argue with the scale of the wilderness act, passed in 1964. the legislation created a way to designate “wilderness areas,” which are still the nation’s highest form of land protection. the act also created the national wilderness preservation system as a means of managing these pristine wildlands, and placed an inaugural 9.1 million acres into its care. today the wilderness system protects nearly 110 million acres across the country. it was these measurable conservation successes that helped make the following numbers possible: protected areas now cover more than 15.4% of the world’s land area and 3.4% of the global ocean area. every country in the world has some form of protected area system. and these protected areas—categorized as national parks, wilderness areas, strict nature reserves and more—are the gifts that keep on giving. they store 15% of the global terrestrial carbon stock, help reduce deforestation and habitat and species loss, and support the livelihoods of over 1 billion people. but in order to ensure these lands are permanently protected, we need more than just a listing on a piece of paper. that’s why wwf and our partners use a funding approach called project finance for permanence (pfp) that is all about the numbers. the pfp method takes a meticulous scientific, financial, and quantifiable approach to securing permanent and full funding for protected areas, or networks of protected areas, and ensuring their long-term financial stability. wwf first used the pfp approach in brazil, where we joined public and private entities to raise $215 million to create, consolidate, and maintain the country’s 150 million-acre network of 114 protected areas. the network, called the amazon region protected areas program, is almost three times larger than all us national parks combined and represents 15% of the brazilian amazon. now wwf is testing the pfp approach in a number of the world’s most important conservation areas, with an initial focus on large-scale areas, most of which are dominated by forests. our current pfp work includes projects in peru, bhutan, and colombia. taken together, the pfp work in peru, colombia, and brazil could protect 15% of the entire amazon biome. we’re exploring how to translate that approach—and our work quantifying the natural and economic value of ecosystems—in the arctic as well. and there are also important numbers like this: nearly a quarter of global greenhouse gas emissions are the result of agriculture. but people have to eat. so what’s the answer? wwf believes our commodity certification programs go a long way in creating a solution that works for the environment, for communities, and for businesses. seventeen percent of global palm oil is certified by the roundtable on sustainable palm oil. close to 10% of the annual global harvest of wild-capture fisheries is certified by the marine stewardship council. and more than 400 million acres—or approximately 10% of the world’s working forests—meet forest stewardship council standards. wwf helped create all three of these certification programs and plays a key role in supporting them to this day. these measures matter, and they represent the best work that we do. there are other measures that delve more deeply into the profound connection between people and nature— none more so than the 17 sustainable development goals (sdgs) which all 193 un member states formally agreed to support last fall. the sdgs are particularly significant because, for the first time, the un’s global development goals link the health of people to a thriving environment. and later that fall, at the paris climate talks, many of the same nations that endorsed the sdgs also committed to hold global warming to well below 2°c above preindustrial levels and to pursue strategies to reach only a 1.5°c increase. these global commitments are far from perfect. but their success is fundamental to the future of humanity and the world, and so wwf has embraced them as the major frame for our work. because our conviction is that it’s not only about wwf and our own goals, as important as they are and as strongly as we believe in them: a safe and sustainable future is about how we help the world reach the bold goals it has set for itself. earlier this year, i received an email from a friend who asked, “how do you drive an organization focused on impacts, results, and increased performance if you don’t organize your flagship reporting and communications around those impacts and results?” the first answer is that we select goals that are important to our organization and to the world at large. the second is that we connect those goals to the biggest initiatives we undertake—so we know we are pursuing initiatives at a scale that matters and that also allows us to hold ourselves accountable to progress and performance in communities around the world. doing so requires us to construct our initiatives so we can measure their social and ecological impacts, in the same way that businesses measure market share or hospitals measure improvements in human health. and with our chief scientist rebecca shaw and others throughout wwf, we are developing a protocol that compels us to measure our contribution to these targets embraced by the world. we are choosing projects and priorities more shrewdly, and increasingly taking stock of our progress using meaningful indicators. and on the basis of that information, we are committed to remaining nimble, so we can course-correct as needed if we find ourselves offtrack. the truth is, there are many things we cherish that cannot be measured. but we know the world safeguards those things that it values, and invests in those things that convincingly make a difference. at wwf, we are working stubbornly toward a time when our shared responsibility to nature is crystal clear, and our collective stewardship of the planet exceeds the burden we place upon it. and as always, we are holding ourselves strictly accountable—not only to nature, but also to you. the paris agreement after weeks of negotiations at the un framework convention on climate change in paris, 196 nations signed on to a historic plan to curb climate change and limit global temperature increases to 2°c above preindustrial levels, and aim for only 1.5°c. china and the us, the two largest emitters of carbon pollution in the world, made significant pledges: china will peak its carbon emissions by 2030, and the us will cut greenhouse gases by 26%–28% by 2025. both nations also formally agreed to the deal struck in paris, building momentum for the agreement’s early entry into force on october 4, 2016. food for the future we have long known that we cannot succeed in our mission unless we solve the interconnected threats of climate change and unsustainable food production. so it was a true tipping point when the gordon and betty moore foundation announced more than $90 million in grants designed to decouple food production from negative environmental impacts. the moore foundation allocated $19.1 million over two years to wwf’s work on the new conservation and financial markets initiative and the collaboration for forests and agriculture, and has also formed a seafood collaboration that will include wwf. illegal fishing up to one-third of wild-caught seafood imported by the us may be illegal—and globally, 85% of fish stocks are at risk from illegal fishing. wwf presented a petition to the obama administration signed by more than 200,000 us citizens urging action to end illegal fishing for all species of fish worldwide, and helping to elevate the profile of this important environmental and economic issue. the renewable energy buyers alliance wwf is one of four nonprofit partners behind reba, a consortium that works to grow—and help satisfy—corporate demand for renewable energy. so far the power of reba has resulted in corporate contracts that will produce over six gigawatts (gws) of new renewable energy in the us. we are well-positioned to meet our goal of 25 gws of corporate renewable energy deployment by 2020, and to expand reba internationally. tigers wwf and the global tiger forum announced that, after six years of concentrated and collective effort, the estimated number of wild tigers has increased for the first time in more than 100 years. approximately 3,890 tigers now exist in the wild, an increase on the 2010 estimate of as few as 3,200. the improved numbers are attributed to rising tiger populations in india, russia, nepal, and bhutan; enhanced protection in many tiger range countries; and improved means of tracking and counting tigers in the wild. sustainable development goals for the first time, the un sustainable development goals recognized the link between freshwater and its role in improving human health. for more than a year, wwf pushed to secure a dedicated and comprehensive goal that included clean water and sanitation. securing this language in the sdgs opens the door for a deeper engagement between wwf and the development community and overtly links the well-being of people to the ecological health of rivers where they live. apple in april, wwf collaborated with apple on apps for earth, a 10-day global cause-marketing and awareness- building campaign connected to earth day that involved the developers of 27 apps—including some of the most popular in the world. the campaign was wildly successful: it resulted in more than 3 billion potential impressions on twitter alone, and our wwf together app, which is available on both tablet and mobile phone, was downloaded by nearly 400,000 new viewers. so as this year comes to a close, i ask you to think about not only what we love, but also what we can measure. how many acres are protected? how much has the world’s temperature risen? how many tigers can we find in the wild? how much of the ocean remains healthy and intact? are we reducing levels of poverty and hunger? because the world has come together and set us on a path that, if followed with conviction and determination, could make the difference between outcomes that will inspire us and consequences that will break our hearts.