 we are living in a time of significant change. governments are changing, climates are changing, the way we carry out many of our daily responsibilities—how we work, communicate, travel—is changing. what isn’t changing is wwf’s commitment to sustainable conservation at the scope and scale necessary to make a difference for the places and species we cherish. in fact, we believe that all of the change the world currently faces presents us with opportunities that we are uniquely qualified to leverage. there is heightened awareness of many of our issues, and our global presence, unique among conservation organizations, means we are on the ground where the need is greatest. we remain steadfastly committed to the goals of the paris agreement, despite the us government’s withdrawal from the same. so do the american people: 69% of registered voters support the landmark climate deal. working with like-minded partners, we launched we are still in, a coalition of more than 2,300 mayors, business leaders, and university presidents committed to making sure america honors its pledges under the paris agreement. the momentum clearly exists to execute on america’s commitments, even without official government support. in the wake of the us announcement, there is also increased global momentum in support of the paris agreement, with countless heads of state coming forward to reaffirm their intention to take climate action. technology is changing our everyday lives—but it is also changing the way conservation is practiced. for the first time, infrared cameras and human-recognition software can be used to identify poachers from afar and alert park rangers to their presence. drones can help vaccinate endangered black-footed ferrets against a deadly disease by dropping peanut butter-flavored bait around their burrows. and using remote-controlled camera traps and other technologies means we can more accurately estimate the populations of endangered creatures such as tigers. the tech revolution has another tremendous benefit. it can help mitigate some of the damage humanity has done to the planet without any thought for the commons. historically, we’ve treated the commons—shared, nonrenewable natural resources such as clean water and air—as free goods. of course, we now know that isn’t the case; each of our actions has a corresponding impact on the environment. we’ve also made alignments internally to help us deliver results in the midst of rapid change. and so while the winds of change are strong, we face into them confidently, in pursuit of our mission to create a future in which humanity and nature thrive.