 the latest film by ken burns tells the story of our national parks – what wallace stegner called “the best idea america ever had.” the story of the creation of yellowstone, yosemite and glacier reveals truths that resonate today. one such truth is that every park owes its existence to people who cared deeply for that place and advocated tirelessly for its conservation. dig a little deeper and what also becomes clear is that we would not have our parks without two additional factors at work: the power of words to persuade and the value of conservation to the business world. it’s hard to imagine our country establishing the world’s first national parks without the itinerant scottish laborer who wrote of his wonder at the glories of yosemite valley, or the young yale graduate who lobbed broadsides from the pages of forest and stream to tell the world how these magnificent places were being threatened. these men – legendary conservationist john muir and audubon society founder george grinnell – captured the world’s imagination and moved people of all backgrounds to care about these places. today, they serve as a reminder that we must continue to do the same: tell the stories of the natural world we love and of the future it faces without thoughtful conservation. but there were also moments in the early debates over public lands when mere words were not enough to turn the tide, and an unlikely force – america’s railroads – convinced congress to continue protecting nature in some of its grandest forms. the railroad industry understood well the economic value the parks represented. it created the “see america first” campaign to entice paying customers from their traditional european vacations, luring them with the siren song of the american west. and when the time came for better management of these nascent parks, the railroads funded some of the effort that led to the creation of the national park service in 1916. today it remains true that we succeed most often when the world places an economic value on nature. consider namibia, where the populations of key species such as lions and cheetahs have soared thanks to communal conservancies. people are able to put money in the bank through ecotourism and other initiatives, inspiring protection of these amazing animals for the economic value they hold. and consider bhutan, where individuals pay $200 per day to stand in awe of intact montane forests and the diversity they harbor. words can move souls and inspire action, but unless humanity values these places and their role in sustaining life and livelihoods, we will likely fail to accomplish our mission in full. these lessons appeared most obvious when i recently joined several wwf board members and partners in the amazon to examine the four horsemen of the environmental apocalypse. instead of conquest, war, famine and death, we examined agriculture, livestock, infrastructure and climate change – potent forces eating away at the edges of this spectacular rain forest. wwf has worked in the amazon for more than 40 years. one of our first grants, in 1968, helped support the creation of manu national park, and our commitment to saving this place has only grown stronger as the decades have passed. of course, the power of narrative has loomed large here as well – perhaps most notably in the case of chico mendes, the iconic brazilian rubber tapper and environmental activist who famously said, “at first i thought i was fighting to save rubber trees; then i thought i was fighting to save the amazon rain forest. now i realize i am fighting for humanity.” a seminal point in our work here came in 2002, when we joined forces with the brazilian government, the moore foundation and the world bank to establish our flagship arpa (amazon region protected areas) program, a 14-year effort to ensure comprehensive protection of the brazilian amazon. the scope of this project boggles the mind: we set a goal of creating enough protected area to conserve an expanse equivalent to the size of california (more than 104 million acres). in just seven years, we’ve created a green wall – 79 million acres of tropical forest parks – stopping deforestation from the east and the south. the success of arpa comes as welcome support for forests and is essential to buttressing existing laws. in 2001, brazil passed a law requiring every soy and livestock producer operating in the “legal amazon” to offset production by ensuring that 50 percent of their land is under forest cover. in 2005 the law was amended to require 80 percent cover, retroactively. but all these laws are under constant attack and scrutiny, and it is increasingly apparent that the market must create a means of compensating landowners for saving forests – whether through preferential prices for “green” soy or through regional compensation schemes as part of a global agreement on climate change. indeed, the soy farmers demanded as much when we met with them on our amazon trip. without some form of compensation, it is unlikely that the remaining forests will survive in their entirety into the coming century. when we visited the brazilian state of mato grosso, we met with governor blairo maggi – also known as the soy king, due to his status as the world’s largest individual producer of this commodity. three years ago, greenpeace accused the soy industry of deforestation and other illegalities. in response, the world’s leading soy traders, who wield great purchasing power, came to wwf, the nature conservancy and conservation international for advice. at our recommendation, they agreed to a moratorium through which they committed to buy only soybeans grown on property with zero recent deforestation in the amazon. maggi embraces the moratorium as the global demand for green products grows, and he now speaks eloquently of his own commitment to sustainability – a transformation that reflects the evolving reality of the market. other industries – including brazil’s livestock industry, which currently accounts for more than 80 percent of the amazon’s deforestation – have been similarly pressured and are following suit. the third-largest beef exporter in brazil committed to a moratorium requiring all beef to be sourced only from areas legally cleared prior to august 2009, with zero deforestation going forward. and since this initial announcement was made, brazil’s (and the world’s) largest meat company and another of the top five brazilian meat companies (cumulatively representing 65 percent of all beef produced in brazil) have agreed to the same. the brazilian association of supermarkets also supports the moratorium, adding further heft. out of this moratorium have sprung parallel efforts – companies that purchase leather and other cattle products are requiring that those products be similarly sourced. and the brazilian sugar industry has entered into a voluntary agreement with the government, pledging no sugarcane expansion onto natural habitat, including forests. wwf’s role in all this? we work with farmers, producers, governments and local communities to identify ways to use the land more efficiently and protect the environment. we work with governments and businesses to ensure compensation for farmers and bring attractive, sustainable products to market. and we use the credibility of our brand, the collective voice of our 5 million members, and the wisdom gleaned from nearly 50 years of science- and field-based conservation to strategically embed the value of nature in the world’s most influential markets. please read on for a detailed look at wwf’s cutting-edge markets program and to learn more about how we engage with industries, producers and communities around the world to tip whole markets toward sustainability. i hope you’ll be as inspired as i am by the possibilities this work holds. what was true in the late 1800s when the world’s first national parks were created remains true today for glorious landscapes such as namibia, bhutan and the amazon: nature needs advocates to tell its story. nature also needs markets to reflect the value it provides. and nature needs us to harness these forces to protect the places we hold most dear.