 within the pages of this annual report you will find remarkable stories of conservation success made possible by your support. on page 11 you can read about the big difference that small biogas stoves are making for lives and landscapes in nepal. on page 19, learn more about how we helped move the needle on renewable energy in cleveland, cincinnati and chicago. and on page 21, find out about the prime minister of thailand’s pledge to shut down her country’s ivory market, an extraordinary action that wwf helped bring to fruition as part of our ongoing campaign against wildlife crime. these wins are significant, and should be celebrated. but the inescapable fact remains that we are not yet as successful as we ought to be at bending the trajectories of deforestation or species loss, or of the loss of marine fisheries on which billions of people depend. put simply: we need to raise our game to devise solutions at the scale of the challenges we face, so that as the conservation landscape shifts around us, we are prepared to shift with it. this means that going forward, wwf must enhance our effectiveness on the largest of scales. to answer this call, we’ve taken an inventory of what we do and how we do it. we’ve identified that we are at our best when we have unequivocal goals, clear plans, empowered leaders and the flexible resources necessary to drive relentless progress and innovation. we don’t deny that we face seemingly implacable challenges in our work. in fact, we’ve both been asked how we can greet the morning and come to work every day when the problems we seek to solve are so enormous. our conviction is that if we can find what the rockefeller foundation describes as “areas of dynamism” in the midst of the world’s “wicked problems,” we can maximize the potential of these areas by identifying the newest and most promising possibilities within them and then taking those to scale. that is the heart of wwf’s new vision. we seek to relentlessly drive innovation on a scale that will truly, finally move the trajectory of conservation in the direction it must go—from restoring degraded lands to relieve pressure on native forests, to finding new ways to knit together business sectors such as salmon or beef, to making sustainability a pre-competitive issue. this report bears witness to the good work we’ve done in the past, and we are proud of our track record. but we know these achievements are far from enough to get the job done, and this is what inspires us to do more, to change our organization and to take on bigger challenges in the year ahead. so to those who ask “isn’t your work discouraging?” our answer is an unequivocal no. we embrace the challenges inherent in conservation with our eyes wide open, and we believe that wwf—and everything we do, and all that we aspire to achieve—embodies the very definition of hope.