 wwf has long staked our reputation on innovation. the science we practice is on the cutting edge, our employees are among the most sought-after in their fields, our partnerships are outside-the-box creative and consistently break new ground for public-private interaction. we are proud of this well-deserved reputation, which we have worked so hard to earn and which advances our mission so well. this type of innovative conservation is in our dna, set forth in our founders’ intentions more than 50 years ago: to create an institution that harnesses the imagination and resources of the world to save species and habitats before they are gone forever. of course capturing the imagination of one person, or 1 billion people, is no small task. but people of all ages and differences can be united through the timeless power of storytelling. that’s why when wwf was born as an institution in 1961, we were born to tell stories. and because we are storytellers, we are better conservationists. telling stories about the natural world we love and our part in protecting it forms the nexus of what we do, from place-based conservation to species restoration to helping shape public policy. i can think of no skill more important to our work. storytelling can also carry with it a responsibility beyond helping to accomplish conservation goals. when we share tales of the places we have been and all that we have seen, we are the voice for those who cannot speak for themselves—because, as the african proverb goes, “until lions have their historians, tales of the hunt shall always glorify the hunter.” of course, convincing people our work is worthy of support becomes magnitudes easier if we can get them into the field—to the amazon or the northern great plains or namibia—so they can see nature, not only for themselves but also through the eyes of local communities, and understand the connection between those places and their future. they will return home with stories of their own to share, adding their voices to the chorus of support not just for wwf but for conservation writ large. the more difficult, and arguably more important, task is to make these places come alive for people who may never see them. conservation and storytelling have long gone hand in hand. consider the national park. it’s a concept we conservationists take for granted, but less than 150 years ago national parks didn’t even exist. today there are more than 6,500 national parks in more than 120 countries around the world. and it all started with storytelling. in 1871, painter thomas moran joined dr. ferdinand hayden, director of the u.s. geological survey, and jay cooke, director of the northern pacific railroad, on an expedition into the then-unknown yellowstone region. during their 40-day trek, moran made dozens of sketches of the wonders he saw. he turned his sketches into a series of watercolors, and his paintings made the rounds in congress. seen together, they told the story. the images “convinced everyone who saw them that the regions where such wonders existed should be preserved to the people forever,” according to hiram chittenden, captain of the corps of engineers. just seven months after moran’s work on the hayden expedition ended—an astonishingly short period of time by today’s standards—the united states congress passed the yellowstone act of 1872. the legislation called for setting aside “as a public park or pleasuring-ground for the benefit and enjoyment of the people” the glorious landscape we now know as yellowstone national park. in less than a year, the world’s first national park had become a reality. native american traditions of storytelling run deep. i love the legend of the bison and the oglala sioux. it comes from the northern great plains, where wwf is working with ranchers and indigenous groups to keep the grassland intact and restore the mighty bison to its historic range. according to the legend, it was the american bison that coaxed humanity out of the ground and into the sunshine with the promise that people would be fed and clothed with bison flesh and fur. and in large part, that’s precisely what happened with the communities in the american west—they hunted the bison for food, clothes and shelter. but for the stories we share to be most effective, they must not just bring to life the wonder and glory of nature. they must also establish unequivocally the degree to which humans depend on nature for our economic, cultural and social well-being—and indeed, for our very lives. to quote wwf national council member and monterey bay aquarium executive director julie packard, “...protection of our life-support system is the single most important thing we can do to assure a future for the human species. all else pales in comparison.” my favorite way to tell—or hear—a story is on the edge of a great landscape: huddled around a glowing fire under a sky full of stars in the northern great plains; or rocking on the prow of a skiff under the lee of a volcano in the coral reefs of the pacific; or in rocking chairs on a porch, taking in the immensity of the sea. stories help us sort through the vastness of the world and make sense of our place in it; stories inspire us to tackle great problems and persuade others to help solve them through ingenuity and perseverance. and just as conservation is a living discipline, so is storytelling. with facebook, twitter, instagram, tumblr, pinterest, reddit, vine, vimeo and countless other media, we have an array of vehicles available to help interpret the sea of issues and information that swirls around us constantly. and then, when we’re ready, we can use any or all of them to share messages, photos, texts, videos—forms of storytelling, all—far and wide to make a difference where we think it will matter most. i hope you’ll enjoy this report and the stories it tells about some of wwf’s proudest moments of the past year, as well as the challenges that lie before us. no matter the medium, we need to double down on using every storytelling tool at our disposal to engage the american public in understanding their relation to nature. and then we must inspire everyone to join us in inventing and deploying solutions that secure the future of the natural world, and our own.