 there have been encouraging wins in a range of conservation fields in the course of the last year. in almost every case, success was due to wwf working closely with national and international policymakers, local communities, individuals and other ngos, who brought special influence or competence to the task. hope for africa’s rhinos 2007 is the 10th anniversary of the launching of wwf’s african rhino programme. we work with governments and other partners to combat poaching and increase the numbers of viable populations in protected areas on public and private land in kenya, namibia, south africa and zimbabwe. in the last decade, both black and white rhino numbers have increased to 3,700 and 14,500 respectively – a dramatic reversal of a once bleak future for these magnificent creatures. water management two measures of the world's freshwater crisis: it is estimated that 1.1 billion people around the world lack access to safe water supplies, and populations of freshwater species have declined 50 per cent since 1970. wwf is working to conserve wetlands, manage river basins, and influence markets for thirsty crops such as cotton, sugar cane and rice. in one example of what can be done, system of rice intensification tests in india boosted yields and income by at least 20 per cent while using less water. in another, the chinese government, the ramsar convention and wwf helped establish the first wetland conservation network along the yangtze river to increase the region's resilience to climate change. more protection, less deforestation the world’s forests and other wildlife habitats have benefited from a number of important victories in the past year: • new protected areas in the amazon, such as the 2 million- hectare guyana amazonian park in french guiana that now links to brazil’s 3.89 million-hectare tumucumaque national park and other areas to create a 12 million- hectare area of protected tropical forest – the world’s largest. meanwhile, two new protected areas were created in colombia, safeguarding still more of the amazon forest. • in paraguay, an extension to a 2004 deforestation law will prevent further clearing of the upper parana atlantic forest. paraguay’s deforestation rate has dropped by 85 per cent in the three years since the law was first passed. • two new national parks in the russian far east will help protect the severely endangered siberian tiger, whose numbers have now recovered to around 500 animals from a low of 50 in the 1940s. a continuing ban on tiger trade despite progress towards recovery in russia, tigers in asia face a new threat – the prospect of a reopened commercial trade in tiger products in china where a domestic ban has been in place since 1993. powerful interests have been pushing to overturn the ban and enable trade in farm-raised tiger body parts. arguing that this would spark an unstoppable illicit trade in tiger products and further threaten vulnerable wild populations, wwf and others lobbied successfully for the ban’s continuation at the 2007 cites* meeting. morocco phases out driftnet fishing driftnets that trail for up to 14km are an indiscriminate and wasteful fishing method estimated to kill about 3,600 dolphins and 23,000 sharks every year in the south- western mediterranean. under an agreement signed by king mohammed vi of morocco, they will be phased out in his country’s waters – a welcome outcome of wwf efforts to eliminate destructive fishing. world’s first sustainable tuna fishery certified the marine stewardship council (msc), co-founded by wwf in 1997, rewards sustainable and well- managed fisheries with its distinctive blue eco-label. twenty-four fisheries are now certified, accounting for more than four million tonnes of seafood, or 7 per cent of the world’s wild fish catch. more specifically, msc-certified suppliers now provide 42 per cent of the global wild salmon catch, 40 per cent of the whitefish catch (the largest commercial fishing sector) and 18 per cent of the spiny lobster catch. a successful year was rounded off by the american albacore fishing association becoming the world’s first certified tuna fishery. climate savers twelve major multinationals, including sony, nike, johnson & johnson and ibm, will eliminate at least 10 million tonnes of co2 emissions annually by 2010 – equivalent to taking over 2 million cars off the road every year. wwf’s climate savers programme shows that such substantial cuts are practical without harming corporate finances and have the additional benefit of building public confidence – proving again that protecting the environment makes good business sense. leaders for sustainability this year saw the successful launch of wwf's one planet leaders – a professional development programme which enables managers and senior executives from industry and the public sector to explore, challenge and apply the latest thinking on sustainable business practice. drawing on wwf's long experience of business partnerships, the high-level programme targets corporate leaders whose goal is to build sustainability into their business models and core activities. learn more at: www.panda.org/business/training french connection for conservation in october, wwf and french development cooperation (afd) renewed a partnership agreement with the objective of strengthening collaboration in natural resource management, improving the livelihoods of disadvantaged populations, and conserving the planet’s ecology and biodiversity. among the regions targeted for action are the congo basin rainforests and marine and fisheries resources in west africa, the indian ocean and the south pacific.