 with alianza mexico, wwf and partners have an unprecedented opportunity to work with local, state and federal agencies; the private sector; civil society; and local communities. we foresee the new partnership’s potential to change the face of conservation around the world. at wwf, we’re always looking for the next big thing – the newest idea, the most promising science, the place where conditions are right for creating real and lasting change. while there is conservation promise in many places around the world, one of the brightest spots right now is mexico. the country is led by a young, energetic and visionary president, felipe calderόn, who has made the environment the centerpiece of his policy agenda. the country also has a strong scientifi c community working on the cutting edge of key issues, including climate change, all with the goal of conserving some of earth’s most diverse ecosystems and the future of the country’s people. wwf has worked in mexico for more than four decades. our connection to mexico and its people – and our commitment to the preservation of their natural resources – has only deepened over time. today, we are helping establish mexico as a global model of conservation through alianza mexico, a groundbreaking partnership with the mexican government, fundación carlos slim, and other local and regional partners. the alianza will drive strategic actions and investments in six key regions: the gulf of california, the chihuahuan desert, the monarch butterfly biosphere reserve, oaxaca, chiapas and the mesoamerican reef. together these regions cover 30 percent of the country. an unprecedented opportunity the alianza offers a new and unique chance to redefine one nation’s approach and at the same time serve as a model for other countries to draw upon as they advance their own conservation and sustainable development agendas. with an initial commitment of $50 million from fundación carlos slim and wwf’s efforts to match this pledge, the alianza’s work will include efforts to mitigate and adapt to climate change, develop comprehensive water management policies, strengthen civil society, develop innovative solutions to conservation finance, and invest in local sustainable economies. all of this will be done in concert with existing efforts at the local, national and global levels and in cooperation with key local and regional partners to maximize efficiency and effectiveness. the alianza was officially launched earlier this year at a ceremony in quintana roo, mexico, when philanthropist carlos slim joined mexico’s minister of environment and natural resources juan elvira quesada and wwf president and ceo carter roberts in signing the partnership agreement. of course, getting to this important moment required an enormous amount of work that had long been under way. we worked closely with the mexican government to establish joint goals for the project. building on wwf’s network of relationships, and under the leadership of omar vidal, executive director for wwf in mexico, we consulted the country’s most skilled and knowledgeable environmental leaders to identify the alianza’s priorities. the choices were challenging: mexico is the fourth most biodiverse country on the planet and one of only 18 nations that collectively harbor more than 70 percent of the world’s species. from the rich waters of the gulf of california to the spectacular forests of chiapas, the wealth of mexico’s natural resources is truly astounding. in the end, six regions were selected as the priority focus of alianza mexico. the chihuahuan desert and is a lifeline for all of these species and for the millions of people who call the desert home. every year in november, millions of monarch butterflies leave the united states and canada on a journey of more than 2,700 miles. destination: the monarch butterfly biosphere reserve in central mexico – 139,000 protected acres of oak, pine and oyamel fir forests where the butterflies hibernate for the winter. these forests are also home to a wide variety of flora and fauna, including more than 130 species of birds, as well as 13 indigenous communities whose livelihoods depend on forest use and subsistence agriculture. careful management of the area’s natural resources is imperative to ensure the continued survival of these communities and to preserve the butterfly ies’ hibernation habitat. fronted by 370 miles of pacific coastline, the mexican state of oaxaca covers nearly 40,000 square miles. it is home to almost 3.5 million people, a figure that includes more than half of the total indigenous mexico is the fourth most biodiverse country on the planet and one of only 18 nations that collectively harbor more than 70 percent of the world’s species. from the rich waters of the gulf of california to the spectacular forests of chiapas, the wealth of mexico’s natural resources is truly astounding. six invaluable places to start the gulf of california separates the baja california peninsula from the mexican mainland. its waters are vast, stretching more than 900 miles and containing at least 920 islands. and they are rich: more than 6,000 species or subspecies of marine life can be found here. this is also an important economic zone, providing livelihoods for tens of thousands of artisanal and commercial fishermen and yielding more than half of mexico’s annual take of fish and other marine products. more than 8 million people make their home here, and their survival depends almost exclusively on the area’s natural resources. covering more than 140,000 square miles, the chihuahuan desert stretches from the southwestern united states – covering parts of arizona, new mexico and texas – deep into central mexico. although the desert sees very little rainfall in an average year, it hums with life: more than 130 species of mammals, 3,000 plant species (including 500 of the world’s 1,500 species of cactus) and 100 species of native freshwater fish thrive here. the rio grande runs through population of mexico. with 50 percent of all species in the country found here, oaxaca is the most biodiverse of mexico’s 31 states and among the fi ve highest- ranking areas in the world for endangered species. equally important are oaxaca’s forests, which preserve great expanses of timberland – including cedar, mahogany and oak – but are being threatened by inadequate forest management. these forests extend well into chiapas, another state holding exceptional biological wealth. chiapas includes the lacandon rain forest, the largest example of dense jungle and rain forest in the country despite a deforestation rate that has increased dramatically over the past 30 years. the lacandon harbors tremendous biological diversity: half of mexico’s bird and daytime butterfl y species are found here, along with 30 percent of the country’s mammal species and nearly all of its tropical trees. also in chiapas is el triunfo biosphere reserve, one of the most pristine natural areas in mexico. the reserve is home to dozens of rare, endemic and endangered species – including pumas, jaguars and the resplendent quetzal – as well as many indigenous communities that depend on its natural bounty to survive. the mesoamerican reef spans four countries (mexico, belize, honduras and guatemala) and nearly 115 million acres. it is the largest reef system in the americas. the mexican portion covers more than 60,000 square miles and includes ocean habitats, coastal zones, tropical and cloud forests, and watersheds that drain the caribbean slope. the reef’s massive size offers protection for a vast array of aquatic life, including more than 500 species of fi sh, 65 species of stony coral, and a variety of sea turtles. the area has also become a travel destination, with exponential growth in cruise ship tourism contributing to the estimated total of 8 million tourists last year. working toward great potential in addition to laying the foundation for the alianza’s work, in 2009 we began work in the fi eld. one early project will improve the conditions of the aquifers in the central valley of oaxaca. aquifers – water-bearing layers of permeable rock, sand or gravel – play an important role in supporting human needs and ensuring environmental sustainability. another project will focus on conserving species in the gulf of california, including the rare vaquita porpoise. the promise of real conservation victories across mexico is tremendous. perhaps more thrilling is the new standard the alianza is setting for latin america and the world, a new standard for collaboration, sustainability and the importance of private philanthropy. by harnessing the collective strengths of local communities, civil society, philanthropists, public- and private-sector institutions, and all levels of government, alianza mexico is redefi ning the future of conservation.