 msc – first seafood “eco-label” the campaign reached an important milestone in march when the msc launched its first certified seafood products – western australian rock lobster and thames herring. at the uk launch,the new msc eco-label was endorsed by wwf international board member, her majesty queen noor of jordan. only fish coming from sources that have met the msc’s strict standards can carry this eco-label, a guarantee to consumers and retailers that they are buying environmentally friendly seafood. with at least 60 per cent of the world’s commercial fish stocks either overfished or fished to the limit, this label offers consumers and retailers new confidence,” said scott burns, director of the endangered seas campaign. by august, alaska’s salmon fishery, which is responsible for 95 per cent of the wild-caught salmon in north america, had been certified. at least 12 other fisheries were being evaluated by the msc. protecting the mediterranean. in june, a new wwf study highlighted 13 areas of the mediterranean sea which need to be protected – and urged governments to aim for a target of protecting at least ten per cent of marine and coastal areas in the region over the next ten years. salmon threatened. in may, wwf called for decisive action to save the wild atlantic salmon from extinction,as governments met in canada for the 17th north atlantic salmon conservation organization meeting. new wwf research showed stocks of the species at their lowest-ever levels.the fish could be bound for extinction if current trends continue. in north america, the number of large salmon returning to their native rivers has dropped by 90 per cent, the species has disappeared from more than three- quarters of baltic rivers in the last 100 years, and salmon catches in scotland and ireland have dropped by 75 per cent in 30 years. the report, mediterranean marine gap analysis, also asked governments to ban coastal trawling and construction in the areas. it showed that 14 per cent of the mediterranean coast is already heavily damaged – and some areas are so degraded that they can be classified as “lost”. these include the italian adriatic coast, the coast between syria and the mouth of the nile, the coast from the mouth of the rhône in france to spain,and the spanish coast from barcelona to valence. currently less than one per cent of the coastal mediterranean sea is protected. dams and other river works prevent the salmon from reaching their spawning grounds, while pollution destroys clean habitats. farmed salmon – of which almost a million escape each year in norway alone – spread diseases and parasites that can kill wild populations.the possible introduction of genetically modified salmon in fish farming could eventually wipe out wild stocks altogether. wwf-norway’s henning røed, who coordi- nated the research, said:“the causes of the decline are diverse – but they are all man-made.” it protects 33,200 hectares of the sulu sea,which con- tains a diversity of marine life equal to or greater than any other area on earth. “years of dynamite and cyanide fishing have taken their toll on these beautiful coral reefs,” said romy trono, vice-president of conservation for wwf-philippines. “it’s asking a lot to close areas to fishing when communities need to fish to survive, but it may be the only hope we have to replenish reefs that have been overfished for so many years.” tubbataha reef national marine park, philippines wwf. philippines is campaigning to save the tubbataha reef, the largest coral reef atoll in the philippines.the tubbataha reef national marine park is a world heritage site and one of wwf’s global 200 sites. banc d’arguin national park, mauritania. banc d'arguin is africa’s largest marine park, part of the sahelian upwelling ecoregion, another wwf global 200 site, and home to the imraguen people. it is increasingly threatened by overfishing of mullet and sharks, driven by demand from overseas markets. wwf helped to improve legislation and on-the-ground enforcement, and funded staff and equipment to manage park resource.