 asian countries pledge to save snow leopards in october 2013, wwf helped secure the bishkek declaration on the conservation of snow leopards and the global snow leopard and ecosystem protection program. endorsed by 12 nations in asia, this will protect key landscapes and promote sustainable development. with usaid’s support, wwf’s focus is on conserving snow leopard habitat, promoting water security and helping communities prepare for climate change impacts. a victory for the bristol bay watershed the us environmental protection agency released a proposal to protect alaska’s pristine bristol bay—home to the world’s largest sockeye salmon fishery—from the potentially destructive impacts of the proposed pebble mine. the epa’s action was a milestone for alaskans and for the thousands of wwf supporters who raised their voices on this issue. a new protected area in chile for blue whales a new marine protected area will preserve a biodiverse region that’s home to blue whales and other endangered marine life. covering a stretch of sea approximately the same size as new york city, the tic-toc marine protected area is already seeing a decrease in unsustainable fishing, debris, bycatch and other threats, thanks to the melimoyu foundation, wwf and partners. three nations agree to sustain butterfly migration in february 2014, north american leaders agreed to create a trinational task force to conserve the monarch butterfly. in 2013, the number of hibernating monarchs reached an all-time low. this pledge for conservation among the us, mexico and canada will help protect the monarch migration. wwf played a vital role in reaching this commitment. virunga national park gains a needed reprieve more than 750,000 advocates around the world signed wwf’s petition calling for an end to oil exploration in africa’s oldest national park. in response, soco international plc pledged to stop oil exploration in virunga national park, home to astounding biodiversity and rare wildlife such as the critically endangered mountain gorilla. we must now work with local partners to urge the government of the democratic republic of the congo to seek the cancellation of all oil leases that overlap this critical world heritage site. new standard tackles shared- water challenges the alliance for water stewardship launched the world’s first international standard to help companies become better stewards of shared watersheds and demonstrate leadership in conserving the planet’s limited fresh water. working with multiple stakeholders, wwf led the establishment of aws and the creation of the standard. wwf goes to myanmar at pivotal moment myanmar—one of the planet’s most biologically diverse and ecologically productive nations—is opening up politically and economically following decades of relative isolation. wwf has seized this historic opportunity to collaborate with government leaders and partners to help the country become a model of sustainable development, where the economy thrives without degrading natural resources. coca-cola and wwf expand efforts in 11 watersheds the coca-cola company and wwf entered a bold and exciting new phase of our partnership. building on the initial success of our nearly decade-long collaboration, the two organizations have set ambitious conservation and performance targets to help solve shared environmental challenges. together, we aim to advance sustainability stewardship, with a focus on fresh water, climate, packaging and agriculture. gef partnership strengthens wwf impact the global environment facility is the world’s largest source of public international funding for environmental projects. wwf has now been accepted as a gef project agency, entrusted with designing and driving transformative gef projects around the world. this opportunity enables us to influence the flow of billions of dollars for conservation. northern great plains grasslands notch a win in february 2014, congress passed a farm bill that protects america’s grasslands and wetlands and balances the needs of people and nature. over the past three years, wwf has advocated for policy reforms to ensure that farmers and ranchers can provide food to hundreds of millions of people and at the same time conserve some of the world’s last intact grasslands, which provide important habitat for wildlife.