 connecting the dots is not always as simple as it seems. if it were, our work would be a lot easier. fortunately, making connections—between the health of the planet and the health of humanity, between sustainability and a strong bottom line, between the sources of energy we choose and the water we drink—is one of wwf’s greatest talents. the challenge comes in establishing that connectivity in a way that inspires action from people everywhere, on all levels. we embrace this challenge. our founders created wwf with a vision firmly rooted in saving species and landscapes. but over the course of 53 years, we necessarily expanded the scope of our mission to include humanity as well, because we cannot separate the well-being of people from the well-being of the ecosystems where they live. in the pages of this annual report you will learn about wwf’s work over the past year, with results organized by our six global goals. these goals represent the fruits of one of last year’s most important labors: updating our strategy and priorities to better leverage wwf’s unique strengths and assets, allowing us to more effectively address the challenges the world faces. key among those assets is our ability to engage key us stakeholders—from individuals to businesses to government agencies to academia—to help devise solutions to complex problems. we did it for arpa (the amazon region protected areas program) when we helped convene the group that conceived and funded arpa for life, an innovative financing mechanism that will facilitate permanent protection of 150 million acres of amazonian rain forest. we did it when we developed a program with the nepalese government that was approved by the world bank and is now poised to access up to $70 million in carbon financing. and with our recent designation as a project agency of the global environment facility—the world’s largest source of international funds for environmental projects—our ability to connect partners at all levels and effect global change has increased dramatically. when charles lindbergh addressed the alaska state legislature in 1968, he said that he didn’t think there was “anything more important than conservation, with the exception of human survival, and the two are so closely interlaced that it is hard to separate one from the other.” bolstered by the unwavering commitment of our friends and supporters—who believe as we do that to change everything, we need the efforts of everyone—we strive every day to strengthen the connections from our lives here at home to our work all over the world.