 award-winning debris. over 2,000 rubber sandals, 1,200 plastic containers, and one message in a bottle were just part of the nearly four tonnes of rubbish found along eight kilometres of australian coastline during a survey of marine debris. the four organizations involved in the survey – wwf, dhimurru land management aboriginal corporation,australia conservation volunteers, and the northern territory department of primary industry and fisheries – won the 2001 banksia environmental award for environmental excellence. combining the forces of local indigenous communities,conservation and volunteer organ- izations, industry, and government, all rubbish found along the north-east arnhem land survey area was removed, recorded, and analysed. of greatest concern were the 500 derelict fishing nets, most of which were identified as originating from foreign fishing operations. wwf will build on this successful partnership project by promoting greater public awareness of the threats posed by debris to marine wildlife. west africa puts eu to shame. in march,two west african nations – mauritania and guinea bissau – took serious steps towards protecting the fish and marine life along their coasts. mauritania banned all fishing except traditional indigenous non-motorized fishing in the banc d’arguin national park – a 12,000 km2 coastal wetland,home to the world’s most endan- gered marine mammal, the monk seal. guinea bissau created the joão viera/poilão national park, a 500 km2 marine protected area in the southern part of the bijagos archipelago – the largest green turtle nesting site on the atlantic coast of africa.at the same time, neighbouring senegal pledged to develop protected areas within its territorial waters. “if developing countries in west africa can invest precious resources in safeguarding their fish stocks, why can’t the european union stop overfishing in west african waters?” asked julie cator, wwf’s european fisheries expert. a significant part of the eu fisheries budget is paid to access fisheries in developing countries with little regard for the long-term sustainability of this important resource. governments worldwide pay up to us$20 billion in subsidies to the fishing industry every year. in addition to causing overcapacity, these subsidies contribute to the death of about 20 million tonnes of bycatch, including dolphins,sharks,and turtles,each year. however, in may, in complete contradiction to proposed eu fisheries policy, the eu entered a bid for a 60 per cent increase in fishing access rights in already overexploited senegalese waters. wwf is pressing the eu to reduce and reform fishing subsidies that contribute to overfishing both in its own waters and abroad, and to use the money to help the fishing industry move towards more sustainable fishing practices. certified fisheries. wwf continued to promote new market incen- tives as a tool for conservation. as one of the founding members of the marine stewardship council (msc), in 2001 wwf witnessed more commercial fisheries, including new zealand hoki, earn the msc’s eco-label, thus providing consumers with the opportunity to purchase seafood from guaranteed certified sources. twelve major fish processors in australia are now selling msc-certified western australian rock lobster to china, europe, taiwan, and the united states. in the uk, three of the country’s largest food retailers, sainsbury’s, tesco, and marks and spencer, are carrying these and other msc-labelled products. combined, these supermarket chains reach millions of people, offering them a real chance to help the marine environment. fears of an ecological disaster were high when the tanker jessica went aground in the galapagos in january,spilling nearly 200,000 gallons of diesel fuel into the sea.wwf was the first international conservation organization to respond by estab- lishing an emergency fund of us$340,000 to help rehabilitate the islands. in the wake of the spill, wwf urged the ecuadorian government to enforce the special conservation law in the archipelago. passed more than two years ago, it provides for restrictions on tourism and immigration and the creation of a marine protected area within a 65-kilometre radius of the islands. “ the sinking of the jessica has reminded the world how fragile the archipelago is,” said peter kramer, wwf’s network relations director and former president of the darwin foundation for the galapagos islands.“only the urgent application of this legislation will ensure that today’s accident will not be tomorrow’s disaster.” in september, ecuador’s constitutional court upheld the special law after a series of legal challenges from the country’s industrial fishing sector.