 in october, we released our sixth living planet report (page 12). media around the world carried the report’s message that we are seriously exceeding the capacity of the earth to support us. wildlife populations around the globe are in decline, and the burden we impose upon the planet is increasing relentlessly. we are using up more and more of our fresh water, forests, and fish stocks. most of all, of course, we are changing the climate. conservation is thus more urgent than ever. wwf is rising to the challenge by forging partnerships that can effect change on a global scale to save the earth’s most extraordinary habitats and to encourage conservation worldwide. this report highlights some of the ways in which we are working with diverse partners to achieve large-scale impacts. collaborations with the government of brazil, the world bank, and local communities in the amazon, for example, have yielded the most ambitious protected-area project ever undertaken (page 4). cooperation between wwf and unilever gave birth to the marine stewardship council (msc) to create a market for sustainable seafood, and wwf is now working with fishermen, processors, and the world’s largest retailers to propel msc into the mainstream (page 10). partnerships like these are crucial for conserving the earth’s biodiversity. they are equally crucial for the fight against poverty, beginning with achieving the united nation’s millennium development goals. in places like the mara river of east africa (page 6), aid agencies and community organizations are vital partners in our efforts to help conserve ecological resources that are essential for successful development. ultimately, the future of all humanity, rich and poor, depends upon finding ways to take better care of the ecosystems that support life on earth, and on forging collaborations that can deliver big results. in this year, when several of our colleagues gave their lives in that cause, we are committed to redoubling our efforts. i hope the examples highlighted in this year’s annual review will inspire you to join us in our fight for a living planet.