 wwf finalized its articles of incorporation 50 years ago in washington, d.c., on december 1, 1961; similar steps were taken in london and geneva that same year. with those actions, wwf was born as a global organization mounting coordinated campaigns to secure the necessary resources to save species from extinction. this basic dna holds true today. no other environmental organization can bring to bear such globally coordinated efforts to stave off species extinction, create parks, tip markets or work in partnership with institutions and communities to make a difference in the world. in celebration of wwf’s 50th anniversary, this fall we brought together our board of directors, our national council and key partners in washington, d.c. we held an extraordinary dinner featuring the american premiere of “tiger in the sun,” a brass fanfare commissioned to raise awareness of the plight of wild tigers and performed by members of the national symphony orchestra. we were treated to an exhilarating performance by acclaimed pianist lang lang, wwf’s newest panda ambassador. and we held a riveting panel discussion on resource scarcity with jared diamond and jeremy grantham, topped off with frans lanting’s reflections on the evolution of photography. throughout the festivities, one message rang clear. for an organization born to save charismatic species, our work increasingly is about people, and humanity’s tenuous relationship to the planet upon which we depend. it follows that wwf’s success increasingly depends on establishing the value of nature in the biggest decisions that societies make. when ralph waldo emerson wrote “when nature has work to be done, she creates a genius,” he may have had in mind the evolutionary niches that species fill, but he might well have also been describing the innovative contributions of the extraordinary individuals who have worked for wwf in its first 50 years. but our work is far from over. we still need to harness our finest thinking to create solutions to address the potential catastrophes this planet faces. this is our work, and our passion. we continue it while celebrating the extraordinary accomplishments of a global organization unique in all the world. with that in mind, i gave the following remarks at our final anniversary celebration this fall and wanted to share them with you.