 people and plants. fijian women in the villages of korovuli and navakasobu prefer the softer kuta plant (eleocharis dulcis) to the coarser leaves of coconut palms for weaving their traditional baby wraps and mats.but the kuta plant is disap- pearing from the peat swamps around their villages – as a result of water lily invasions, chemical run-off from sugar plantations,and siltation as trees are cut down. a wwf/unesco people and plants project is now helping the women to save the kuta and their famous weaving tradition by improving how they manage the wetlands – and confronting issues of land ownership. wwf south pacific’s kesaia tabunakawai said:“the women were not consulted about their land being carved up for agricultural leases in the 1970s.had they known and understood the consequences of this, the situation might now be very different.” large carnivores europe’s large carnivores are of increasing concern.the iberian lynx, now found only in fragmented habitat in spain and portugal, is the world’s most endangered cat species. wwf and partner organizations in 17 euro- pean countries launched a large carnivore initiative to secure survival of the brown bear, eurasian lynx, iberian lynx, wolf, and wolverine. the initiative’s action plans were approved by the council of europe and the bern convention. fifth edition the fifth edition of ny voary, an environmental education manual for the schoolchildren of madagascar, was presented by wwf to the country’s ministry of and grandson of hrh prince bernhard of the netherlands, one of the founding members of wwf. david butcher, wwf-australia’s ceo, said: “millions of tonnes of sediment and chemicals pour into the reef lagoon every year, and land clearing throughout queensland has greatly exacerbated the problem.the great barrier reef is the world’s biggest living entity and a global, as well as national,treasure.” corsican pines lost. fires which raged in central corsica in august destroyed more than 4,200 hectares of forests in the valley of vivario, and also much of the beautiful forest of 250-year-old laricio pines in the valley of restonica. illegal wildlife trade the traffic network* achieved significant victo- ries in the battle against illegal wildlife trade,estimated education. wwf has been helping to develop an environmental focus in the school curriculum since 1987 and began funding production of the ny voary textbooks in 1988. by 2003, with support from the german government, 2,600,000 textbooks will have been produced for use in private and public primary schools – along with 135,000 manuals and 480,000 other teaching and outreach materials. save the barrier reef. a campaign website to highlight the threats to the world-renowned great barrier reef was launched by wwf- australia in september – by hrh prince willem-alexander,crown prince of the netherlands,an enthusiastic diver and grandson of hrh prince bernhard of the netherlands, one of the founding members of wwf. david butcher, wwf-australia’s ceo, said: “millions of tonnes of sediment and chemicals pour into the reef lagoon every year, and land clearing throughout queensland has greatly exacerbated the problem.the great barrier reef is the world’s biggest living entity and a global,as well as national,treasure.” illegal wildlife trade. the traffic network* achieved significant victories in the battle against illegal wildlife trade,estimated to be worth billions of dollars annually. during the year, for example,wwf applauded the first criminal prosecution in the united states for the illegal sale of smuggled shahtoosh shawls – made from the hair of the rare and endangered tibetan antelope. this followed the release of a traffic report, fashion statement spells death for tibetan antelope, in late 1999, which detailed how the illicit trade in shahtoosh drives large-scale poaching on the high plateau of china. it also documented the trade route from the tibetan plateau to india and ultimately to hong kong, new york, and other fashion centres of the world. corsican pines lost. fires which raged in central corsica in august destroyed more than 4,200 hectares of forests in the valley of vivario, and also much of the beautiful forest of 250-year-old laricio pines in the valley of restonica. it is believed that the fires were lit deliberately. wwf-france urged the french government to take appropriate prevention and reforestation measures to restore the region’s biodiversity. without reforestation, maritime pine will nat urally replace the laricio pine, the seeds of which were destroyed by the fire. it would then take at least 150 years for the laricio pine to regenerate. kenya’s “good woods”. beautiful kenyan wood carvings are found around the world – but the very success of the woodcarving industry is undermining the natural resource on which it is based: slow-growing hardwoods such as ebony and mahogany. the result is that the livelihoods of 60,000 carvers and their families – as well as globally important forest diversity – are under threat. wwf and unesco’s people and plants initiative is helping to bring long-term sustainability to the carving industry through its “good woods” cam- paign. fast-growing trees such as neem, jacaranda, grevillea, and mango are a viable alternative wood source for the carvers and can be harvested with minimal ecological impact. the campaign, now in its seventh year, is helping both producers and buyers to develop the “good woods” mark, and small producers to achieve certification by the forest stewardship council for their carvings.wwf is also working with the kenya forest department to restrict hardwood supplies while encouraging the planting of “good woods” and native hardwoods. gifts to the earth. wwf’s gifts to the earth initiative recognizes the good conservation work of others – governments, companies, organizations, or individuals – for what they have already achieved or for making new, cred- ible commitments. the commitments must address wwf’s conservation priorities and help to achieve the targets of wwf’s four international thematic cam- paigns on forests,fresh water,seas,and climate change. by mid-2000,wwf’s gifts to the earth initiative had recognized 56 separate donations – an unprecedented conservation achievement. in october, at a ceremony attended by former south african president nelson mandela, dr anton rupert became only the second individual to be recognized as having made a gift to the earth. dr rupert, founder and president of wwf- south africa,was honoured for his role in developing several trans-frontier conservation initiatives in southern africa through the peace parks foundation. the giant panda. in partnership with china’s state forestry administration, wwf is spearheading the first national panda survey in more than ten years.the last survey found only about 1,000 pandas remaining in the wild and pilot surveys for the new initiative indicate that the distribution and population of pandas has declined significantly. the current survey will be completed by june 2002. although china has 33 nature reserves for the protection of the panda, nearly half of the remaining wild panda habitat lies outside them.wwf produced a satellite-based assessment of existing and potential panda habitat in the qinling mountains of shaanxi province,which generated recommendations for expanding existing reserves and establishing new ones.