 wwf’s living planet report shows that global consumption levels exceed the earth’s capacity to renew them. the longer we carry on in this way, the greater the risk to future generations. with growing human populations and growing global consumption, the human footprint all but dwarfs the planet. we predict a clear imbalance between the finite supply of earth’s natural resources and our unsustainable demand for them. this demand is not distributed evenly: the average american consumes more than 40 times as much as the average african in his or her lifetime. globally, demand is increasing: most analysts expect that by 2050 we will have another 3 billion or so people and consumption will double. the unavoidable conclusion is that consumption stands to undermine any on-the-ground results that we and other conservation groups deliver. the consumption of natural resources for food, feed, fiber and fuel is the largest single threat to wwf’s priority places. today’s global economy is extremely efficient. it can produce and process raw materials from the most remote parts of the world and ship them halfway around the globe to be consumed by people who rarely think twice about where products come from. because we are already living beyond our environment’s means, and because our highly efficient global markets do not put an economic value on biodiversity, we must find ways to produce more with less while we work to restore vital ecosystems around the world. wwf’s theory of change when wwf set out to rein in the impacts of consumption, we began by identifying the most significant threats to our portfolio of globally significant places. we looked at agriculture, aquaculture, fisheries, deforestation, mining, and oil and gas. while hundreds of commodities are produced in our priority places, we chose to focus on 15 that present globally significant threats and another half dozen that are locally important. next we evaluated approaches to reducing these threats. other conservation organizations have chosen to work directly with producers of raw materials to reduce their impacts, but with more than a billion of them around the world, this is a daunting task, one that we balancing the budget: believe should be handled by governments. still others aim to change consumer behavior – equally daunting, with 6.7 billion consumers today and more on the way. at wwf, we decided to leverage our influence on global markets by focusing on the players in the middle of the supply chain, between producers and consumers. this includes processors, traders, manufacturers, brands, buyers and retailers, as well as those who invest in all these companies. our goal is to move global markets to a place where consumers no longer have “bad” choices – bad for the earth or for future generations. with millions of companies in global markets, how can we do this? consider these facts: over the past decade, the private sector has invested more in developing countries – three times as much, to be precise – than have all nongovernmental organizations, government foreign assistance programs and international agencies combined. globally, 300-500 companies control 70 percent or more of the international trade in each of the 15 globally traded commodities with the greatest impacts on our priority places. about 200 global companies touch 50 percent of all 15 commodities, and about 100 touch 25 percent. the linchpin of our strategy is this group of 100 companies. if we can move them, others will follow suit and we can change as much as 40-50 percent of the market. in addition, targeting 100 of the world’s largest companies, while a huge undertaking, is in fact feasible. wwf leadership across our global network has adopted an ambitious aim for 2020: zero loss of high conservation value habitat from the production of our 15 priority commodities, with more than 25 percent of global trade meeting environmentally acceptable, performance- based standards for production. approaches to market transformation much of wwf’s strategy involves working with companies to develop goals that are mutually acceptable. we engage these companies in different ways, depending on their role in the market. our collaboration with mars serves as an example of our work with market leaders. as a leading global food company, mars has been on the forefront of the drive toward sustainable production. during the past year, mars has committed to ensuring that 100 percent of the cocoa in its supply chain is sustainably produced by 2020. mars is also working with leading sustainability scientists to understand which of its other raw material streams could benefit from engagement with certifi cation processes. in a second approach, our work involves moving a significant percentage of players in a given industry toward sustainable production. we convene multistakeholder groups to agree on key environmental impacts, develop performance standards, and implement them. in each case, our corporate partners represent at least 10-20 percent of global demand. another type of partnership involves companies that may not have large market shares but are known to lead on innovative practices, product development, or processing or packing technologies. in 2009, seventh generation became the first company in its industry in north america to purchase sustainable palm kernel oil certification credits to offset use of the ingredient across its entire product line. we also partner with companies that are particularly important players in one or more of wwf’s global priority places, directly or through their supply chains. wwf recently discovered that a portion of the coffee from sumatra was from farmers who had illegally invaded a national park. to address this issue, we sought the support of kraft foods, one of the main buyers sourcing from the region. now we are working together to find a solution for the farmers and to ensure a supply chain of sustainably grown coffee. finally, we take a different approach in the case of companies whose impacts on key places are severe and whose leadership has repeatedly refused to engage constructively toward improved practices. in these situations, wwf takes a more targeted approach. such has been the case with asia pulp and paper/sinar mas group, whose logging operations are linked to the destruction of natural forest in sumatra where some of the world’s last populations of wild tigers, elephants, rhinos and orangutans coexist. wwf led a campaign urging major companies to phase out their supply and use of unsustainable wood products from this critical forest. in direct response to our campaign, offi ce supply giant staples inc. ended their relationship with this paper company. staples is the latest of the large paper sellers in the global market to take this stand. on the horizon the issues around commodities and consumption are complex, especially when not all of the stakeholders are starting from the same science-based foundation. some ask, “where will it all end?” our belief is that the search for “better” will never end. that’s why we advocate for the continuing advancement of the science behind these issues and for decisions based on this science and the realities of conditions on the ground. over time, we can improve our decisions and reduce our impacts as the developing science allows us to better understand them. in the process we will gain experience in both what to think and, more important, how to think about living within the resource base of the only planet we have.