 wwf’s forest carbon initiative is working to inform the debate on redd and redd finance. in march, with support from the david and lucile packard foundation, wwf sponsored the forest carbon summit 2009: making forest carbon markets work. “to make these markets work for redd,” says don kanak, “we knew we had to get the right minds together from the right sectors and places: government, finance, law, consulting, academia and nongovernmental organizations, from developed and developing countries and including the world’s forest countries.” to do that, wwf reached out to duke university’s nicholas institute for environmental policy solutions and the harvard law school program on international financial systems as partners to organize the conference. more than 70 leaders and experts from all the key sectors assembled for the weekend in washington, d.c., working day and night to exchange views and identify what is required to make forest carbon markets work. h.e. bharrat jagdeo, president of guyana, and the hon. robert hill, australia’s ambassador to the un and leader of australia’s delegation to kyoto, not only addressed the group but participated in the in-depth discussions. while the summit was not designed to develop a set of consensus recommendations, there was general agreement on several themes: redd represents a triple win – for nature, for the climate, and for improving the future for forest countries and communities. funding redd is essential, and it must be done urgently and massively from a wide range of public and private sources. more needs to be done to build international and national redd frameworks that will ensure reliable accounting for redd carbon and to deal with risks in ways that allow private investors to manage risks and earn acceptable returns. early-action projects should be encouraged and funded to assist forest countries and communities to develop and demonstrate various elements of redd capacity, among them land-use planning; participation and acceptance by forest communities; and technology, including monitoring and remote sensing. the work of the conference fed into wwf’s comprehensive efforts leading up to the un climate conference in copenhagen in december.