 towards a pops treaty wwf. is a leading voice in urging governments to phase out pops. the global negotiations on a pops treaty, which began in montreal in 1998, were the first time that governments focused on banning a class of chemicals which are directly toxic to wildlife and humans.wwf has urged government negotiators to establish a strong global regime, built on elimination, precaution, and financial and technical assistance. throughout these negotiations, wwf gained extensive media coverage for its technical reports and expertise and was widely viewed as the key media voice on pops. in march for example, at the fourth treaty negotiating session in bonn, seven wwf briefing papers – on such issues as financial mechanisms to support the new treaty, ddt, and criteria for adding new pops to the treaty – were very well received by governments, ngos, and the media. wwf also played a key role over the past two years in creating the international pops elimination network,an informal group of more than 300 ngos. the network has addressed such issues as dioxins, obsolete stockpiles, and precaution. theo colborn wins blue planet prize. wwf senior scientist dr theo colborn has been awarded one of the most prestigious international environmental awards, the blue planet prize, for her groundbreaking work to uncover the insidious nature of prenatal exposure to man-made chemicals in wildlife and humans. established by japan’s asahi glass foundation in 1992, the blue planet prize recognizes outstanding scientific contributions to global envi- ronmental conservation dr colborn received her certificate, trophy and us$ 450,000 award in october. she is co-author,with dr john peterson myers and dianne dumanoski, of our stolen future, which sent shockwaves through the chemical industry when published in 1996.the book chronicles the voluminous scientific evidence that common synthetic chemicals can interfere with naturally produced hormones and cause developmental and reproductive abnormalities. sweden tops fsc ratings. one million hectares of sweden’s state-owned forests – an area one-third the size of belgium – were certified by the forest stewardship council (fsc) in septem- ber.sweden now has 10.2 million hectares of fsc-certified forest (45 per cent of all its publicly and privately owned forests), the highest rate in the world. many europe-based companies depend on timber from sweden, which supplies, for example, 17 per cent of germany’s timber demand. “the areas managed by the swedish state contain some of the most valuable forest ecosystems in sweden and are home to threatened forest- dwelling plants and animals,such as the golden eagle,” said lars kristoferson, secretary-general of wwf- sweden. “fsc certification means that their long- term health is now an important goal.this area is also very important for the indigenous sami people and their traditional reindeer herding, which is taken into consideration in the certification process.” (see forests, page 6)