 pops traty signed/ as the lead ngo throughout the three-year negotiation process, wwf scored a major vic- tory in december 2000, when 122 governments finalized a global treaty in johannesburg, south africa, that targets some of the world’s most dangerous persistent organic pollutants (pops). representing the most ambitious effort to date to rein in and halt the proliferation of toxic chemicals, the “stockholm convention” is designed to eliminate or severely restrict the production and use of the most harmful chemicals – such as pcbs, dioxins, and ddt; to ensure the environmentally sound management and chem- ical transformation of pops waste; and to prevent the emergence of similar chemicals. in an initiative that gives real meaning to the new convention, wwf is one of several international bodies involved in the “africa stockpiles project”, which aims to clean up stockpiles of obsolete pesticides on the african continent. wwf moves on edcs. wwf has spearheaded the scientific investigation of endocrine-disrupting chemicals (edcs) which can mimic or interfere with hormone systems in people and wildlife, gravely impairing health.these include pesticides such as lindane and endosulfan,and industrial chemicals like tributyltin, used to repel barnacles on ships’ hulls, the phthalates which soften plastics,and bisphenol a in the lining of tin cans. one initiative underway in europe concerns the north east atlantic, where marine wildlife is severely threatened by the run-off of industrial chemicals and agricultural pesticides. here, through lobbying of policy-makers within the eu, wwf is working towards stopping the use of all hazardous substances that are currently affecting the coastal waters and open sea. action against chemicals. wwf is gearing up to fight the spread and threat of toxic chemicals around the world.to complement its high-level policy work,wwf aims to mobilize communities to tackle toxic contamination at all levels of society. in central america, a region at high risk from environmental disasters involving toxics due to increased shipping and the poor state of major ports, wwf has helped develop the “regional agenda for port and marine environ- mental security”. in guyana, wwf is studying the environmental and health impacts of the mercury used in artisanal gold-mining: preliminary tests on people and fish in both surinam and guyana show significantly high levels of mercury. and in pakistan, wwf has run training courses in waste reduction and disposal techniques for hospitals, and published public information sheets on toxic chemicals. in europe, wwf played an influential role in the development, over four years,of the european commission’s draft white paper on chemicals strategy.the strategy, released during 2001, provides a blueprint for chemicals management on a global scale. in response to chemicals-related incidents such as the serious pollution of the tisza river in romania and hungary in february 2000, wwf is carrying out research and policy work designed to achieve stricter environmental legislation for all mining activities within the eu. already, partly as a result of wwf work, the european commission has updated the eu hazardous waste list, adding several substances which in future will require risk-free management and disposal techniques.