 half a century ago, our founders, a small group of scientists, royalty and business leaders spanning europe and the u.s. came together around an audacious idea. the world had plenty of plans to save species, but had made little progress. their dream was to build an unprecedented global network to secure the resources necessary to save the world’s great animals from extinction. the first campaign was on rhinos. at the beginning of this past century white rhinos numbered less than 50. black rhino population plummeted from 70,000 to just 2,000. world wildlife fund mounted campaigns across two continents. working with others, created parks, hired guards and shut down poachers. today some 4,700 black rhinos and 20,000 white rhinos roam the earth. this was the first of a great many victories, including: creating the world’s largest system of protected areas in the amazon. inventing certification programs for commodities like seafood, timber and sugar. partnering with companies to meet the needs of humanity while using less water, land and energy, and supporting congo basin leaders to set aside 10 percent of the forest in each of their countries. we want nothing less than to save the world. as a child, i disappeared into the woods. i lost myself in the woods of the south— a world of deep green, salamanders under logs, bird songs. awe and wonder. i loved these places. i graduated from college, went to business school, worked for some of the biggest companies on earth— companies that make things each of you use every day. and then i entered the world of conservation. people who know me best have wondered not why i entered this world, but why i spent those years in business before doing so. i’m not a scientist. i’m not a lawyer. but over time i saw clearly the opportunity to take principles of business and apply them to our work. because at the end of the day, nature is not just something that is achingly beautiful and stills the soul. it is also fundamental to meeting our very basic needs. it has value. this kind of epiphany is spreading— from the coasts of africa to the forests of nepal to the board rooms of the world’s biggest companies. five years ago, i met mozambican fishermen who watched trawlers from spain scrape their coast clean. they saw fish they brought home to feed their families shrink to the size of pencils. they suffered, because they depend on the sea for their food and for their livelihoods. they invited us to work with them, create parks to protect their coral reefs and help manage those parks for their catch. five years later they’re catching more, bigger fish... like magic. my attempts to describe coral reefs always come up short. but they are nothing less than amazing. their colors, their shapes, their function; astonishing riches of the sea. more remarkable is the fact that coral reefs literally function as fish factories. fish spawn and grow and reproduce here. a source of food for hundreds of millions of people, and income for those in the poorest places on earth. we came back to mozambique last year, and joined forces with a nearby community that wanted the same results. they mapped mangroves and corals and sea grass beds. they designed their own marine reserve. we joined them in dropping buoys to establish its boundaries, so they could manage their own fisheries and feed their families. sends chills down your spine. you can find the same epiphany far inland, where tigers have value that far exceeds their stripes. i’ll never forget the first time i flew into the lowlands of nepal. snow-covered himalayas looming just to the north. a landscape layered deep in history. communities eking a living from ravaged forests. a string of small parks, guards overwhelmed by poachers, small populations of tigers and rhinos just holding on. wwf’s staff— legendary people in conservation— dreamed of bringing this place back to life. reconnecting these parks with each other. restoring forests and reviving communities. the government enshrined an idea to share revenue from tiger parks with surrounding communities. communities responded in kind. they organized antipoaching patrols, planted seedlings in pastures, built stoves that use less wood and reconnected this landscape, to protect the tigers and safeguard a natural source of wealth unique in all the world. and today you can visit, as i did just last year, once-bare landscapes that now boast forty-foot-high sal trees. long-dead springs that have come back to life. tigers sighted for the first time in years. the people who live here have a deeply spiritual connection to this place, where according to legend buddha was born—reincarnated from a prince who sacrificed himself to save a mother tiger and her cubs. in this forest, where communities take ownership of this landscape, knitting it back together and bringing it back to life. ownership comes in the most unexpected places. wang shi is an entrepreneur who builds homes in china, more than anyone, and loves nature from the tops of the world’s highest mountains. china consumes timber at about the same levels as the u.s. trees come from all over the world, but the effect of their harvest is felt most in borneo. of the three great tropical forests, borneo’s is the one most in danger. only 30 percent remains. don’t blink, because soon enough we may lose this place. the world’s richest forest, home to orangutans, pygmy elephants and more, could be gone. when wang shi had his epiphany, he approached wwf and told us about his hopes and dreams. he talked about plans for his company to use less lumber in building new homes in china. we talked about the remaining wood, where would it come from. how could he source it in a way that avoided destroying these last stands of forests? we’re now building a partnership to answer these questions and find better solutions. it has the potential to establish a model in this part of the world for how a company and its leader can sustainso too is this businessman taking a profound sense of ownership for the fate of the forests upon which his business ultimately depends just as coke realized it can’t make products without water. and ikea realized it can’t sell furniture without trees. and walmart knows it can’t provide seafood without fisheries that thrive. this reflects the evolution of our work. we may start with tigers, but we quickly get to landscapes, to species, to people, to governments, to the largest markets in the world— and we realize that nature provides a foundation for not only all that we cherish, but also all that we need. what’s at stake? everything. life on earth as we know it. the question is—can we act fast enough? the bible, of course, is full of grim prophecies. none more so than the book of lamentations, written by jeremiah, a prophet so dire his very name became synonymous with lamentations about the future. our movement is chock full of jeremiads— prophecies of doom. losing the world’s major fisheries by the middle of this century. species driven to extinction. climate change catastrophes. diminishing forests. dwindling availability of water in places where it matters most. people ask me: how can you work at wwf, face those challenges and find a way through? my answer is that it requires a certain kind of faith. and by faith i don’t mean casting prayers to heaven. i mean a different type of faith— a fierce conviction that we can face these jeremiads, find the technical, financial and human resources we need, and work tirelessly to write a different ending to this story. my belief is that this kind of fierce conviction increases the odds that you can find ways to enable the innate redemptive power of forests and rivers and coral reefs to heal themselves. after all, nature is not only valuable...it is powerful. if only we give it a chance. you’ll find this conviction in great abundance tonight, evident on the face of every person in the room. our staff, our board, our volunteers, our partners. you’ll find it in the extraordinary leaders with whom we work on the ground around the world. our work—your work—requires us all to face squarely the jeremiads of our movement, take this epiphany that our work is not just about beauty—we are fighting for our very lives— and together build a future that defies the predictions we face. take a profound sense of ownership in the fate of the natural world, with the fiercest conviction that we can change the outcome. when i look around this room and reflect on the conviction of our staff, our membership, our partners and our board, i have faith that we can—and will— save this remarkable planet...and ourselves. thank you. their business and sustain the world, by recognizing the value of nature. just as people took ownership of fisheries in africa, and of tigers in nepal, so too is this businessman taking a profound sense of ownership for the fate of the forests upon which his business ultimately depends just as coke realized it can’t make products without water. and ikea realized it can’t sell furniture without trees. and walmart knows it can’t provide seafood without fisheries that thrive. this reflects the evolution of our work. we may start with tigers, but we quickly get to landscapes, to species, to people, to governments, to the largest markets in the world— and we realize that nature provides a foundation for not only all that we cherish, but also all that we need. what’s at stake? everything. life on earth as we know it. the question is—can we act fast enough? the bible, of course, is full of grim prophecies. none more so than the book of lamentations, written by jeremiah, a prophet so dire his very name became synonymous with lamentations about the future. our movement is chock full of jeremiads— prophecies of doom. losing the world’s major fisheries by the middle of this century. species driven to extinction. climate change catastrophes. diminishing forests. dwindling availability of water in places where it matters most. people ask me: how can you work at wwf, face those challenges and find a way through? my answer is that it requires a certain kind of faith. and by faith i don’t mean casting prayers to heaven. i mean a different type of faith— a fierce conviction that we can face these jeremiads, find the technical, financial and human resources we need, and work tirelessly to write a different ending to this story. my belief is that this kind of fierce conviction increases the odds that you can find ways to enable the innate redemptive power of forests and rivers and coral reefs to heal themselves. after all, nature is not only valuable...it is powerful. if only we give it a chance. you’ll find this conviction in great abundance tonight, evident on the face of every person in the room. our staff, our board, our volunteers, our partners. you’ll find it in the extraordinary leaders with whom we work on the ground around the world. our work—your work—requires us all to face squarely the jeremiads of our movement, take this epiphany that our work is not just about beauty—we are fighting for our very lives— and together build a future that defies the predictions we face. take a profound sense of ownership in the fate of the natural world, with the fiercest conviction that we can change the outcome. when i look around this room and reflect on the conviction of our staff, our membership, our partners and our board, i have faith that we can—and will— save this remarkable planet...and ourselves. thank you.