 water for life. wetlands play a crucial role in the supply of fresh water, acting as giant sponges, absorbing and slowly releasing rainfall, purifying water and controlling floods. since january 2000, wwf’s living waters campaign has helped secure protection for up to 10 million hectares of wetlands. this means hope for the 400 million people who depend on them for their water, fish, and raw materials, day in, day out. though encouraging, this is only the begin- ning:freshwater plants and animals have declined by a staggering 50 per cent in 30 years – indcating havoc in a web of life that supports the world’s most basic resource. wwf is calling on countries across the world to safeguard their wetlands and on world leaders to make water management a priority. on 2 february,world wetlands day, wwf joined the ramsar convention on wetlands in warning that unless more is done to protect wet- lands, water shortages will become severe in at least 60 countries by the middle of the century.in addition, fewer wetlands to absorb sudden, large quantities of water will increase the likelihood of flood-related disasters as weather patterns change as a result of global warming. though efforts to conserve wetlands have intensified in recent years,only 80 million hectares of the world total less than 10 per cent – are protected under the ramsar convention. the bolivian government claimed a first by designating, in september, three wetlands totalling 4,600,000 hectares as ramsar sites – the largest freshwater protected area in latin america.the wetlands are home to hundreds of species including jaguars, tapirs, giant river otters, and hyacinth macaws, and provide vital freshwater reserves for the surrounding populations. the real cost of bottled water. the release by wwf in may of a report on bottled water sparked an unexpectedly wide debate and spotlighted issues of water quality and the environmental waste associated with plastic bottles. according to the study – bottled water: understanding a social phenomenon – bottled water may be no safer or healthier than tap water in many countries, while selling for up to 1,000 times the price.yet,it is the fastest growing drinks industry in the world, estimated to be worth us$22 billion annually. every year 1.5 million tonnes of plastic are used to bottle water – raising concerns for the environment from so many discarded bottles. the debate over bottled water is partly fuelled by fears over the safety of municipal water and by the marketing of many brands as being drawn from pristine sources and healthier than tap water. however, some bottled waters only differ from tap water because they are dis- tributed in bottles rather than through pipes. according to the international bottled water association, the industry and governments were due to adopt worldwide standards to ensure uni- form quality in late 2001.with the bottled water industry growing at 7 per cent a year and 15 per cent in developing regions such as asia,standards are urgently needed. “it is clear that relying on water from a bot- tle will not solve problems of safety and access for the consumer,” said richard holland of wwf’s living waters campaign. “not only do we need tough global standards for bottled water, but we also need to ensure that the water coming out of our taps and wells is safe to drink. this means taking better care of water sources.” caviar crisis. the majority of the world’s caviar comes from just three species of sturgeon: the beluga (or giant) sturgeon, russian sturgeon, and stellate sturgeon. these fish, which have survived since the age of the dinosaurs, can live for up to 150 years and reach six metres in length – making them one of the largest freshwater fish on earth. today, legal and illegal caviar trade have so reduced their numbers that the fish could become extinct as a commercially viable species within two years. following calls by wwf, delegates to the standing committee of the convention on inter- national trade in endangered species (cites) meeting in paris in june agreed to a 12-month action plan that includes a halt to sturgeon fishing in the caspian sea for the rest of the year. under the agreement, azerbaijan, kazakhstan, and russia may only export caviar held in storage, and are to carry out comprehensive surveys of sturgeon stocks by the end of 2001. “wwf would like to see caviar-trading com- panies fund conservation efforts and governments committed to exposing corruption,target- ing the illegal trade, and implementing better controls to manage it,” said stuart chapman of wwf’s species programme. sturgeon catches in the caspian basin account for 60 per cent of the world’s caviar supply.although fishing has increased in recent years, catches dropped from an annual 30,000 tonnes in the late 1970s to 1,000 tonnes by the late 1990s. by halting fishing now and carefully regulating it in future, the trade in caviar could continue indefinitely.