 approaching zero. the iberian lynx, the world’s most endangered wild cat, is on the brink of extinction. the last ones, thought to number only a few hundred, live in the mediterranean forests of spain. less than 50 remain in neighbouring portugal. to gain a clearer picture of where and how many lynxes there are, wwf is surveying two of their main habitats in central and southern spain, as well as negotiating agreements with local landowners to create a network of protected areas. to date, 11 agreements covering 15,000 hectares have been signed. the iberian lynx is one of four critically endangered species that wwf is working to save in europe.the others are the brown bear, wolf, and wolverine. on the road to recovery. in the 1970s,the golden lion tamarin was nearing extinction, with less than 200 left in the wild. in march 2001, after years of conservation work, the 1,000th – a baby male – was born. conserva- tion measures to rescue the tiny monkey have included the reintroduction of captive-bred animals into the wild (147 so far) and moving isolated tamarins to larger forest areas. this unique partnership involving 40 organ- izations and 140 zoos worldwide also aims to protect the creature’s highly threatened home, the atlantic forest of brazil. the forests once covered more than 100 million hectares,but have been reduced to 7 per cent of their original area by agricultural and urban developments. wwf is working on increasing the amount of forest available to the tamarin to 25,000 hectares, up from the current 16,000 hectares. making a spectacle. the spectacled bear features strongly in peru’s cultural traditions. however, habitat destruction, hunting, and illegal trade combined with its slow birth rate, large range needs, and solitary nature are putting the bear in danger. in march, wwf, in collaboration with a group of biologists and other ngos, launched an educational exhibition to explain the problems facing the species. over several months, the exhibition travelled to many locations, using local legends and crafts to explain to people the importance of the bear. for wwf, the spectacled bear is a symbol for conservation action in the northern andes. new to science. these days,discovering a new mammal species is rare indeed. yet the wwf kikori project in papua new guinea can now claim four such discoveries. the latest is a species of murexia – a small carnivorous marsupial – found in october 1999 during a survey in the moss forest near the summit of mount sisa. confirmation of the new species was received in april 2001, following taxonomic assessment by zoologists. the three previous finds were all rats. whales founder as iwc flounders. despite considerable lobbying and behind the scenes work by wwf, the international whaling commission (iwc), meeting in london in july, failed to make any headway in bringing current unregulated whaling under international control. the blocking tactics of whaling nations japan and norway with their group of supporting countries also succeeded in preventing the creation of two new whale sanctuaries – one in the south pacific and another in the south atlantic. wwf was deeply disappointed at the outcome. describing the result as “a setback for whale conservation”, cassandra phillips, wwf’s expert on whales, said: time is running out for the iwc member governments to reach agreement. if they fail, this could open the floodgates to an expansion of whaling on a scale that has not been seen for years.” meanwhile a new wwf report – wanted alive! whales in the wild – warned that despite decades of protection,seven of the 13 great whale species are still at risk.in addition to ever-present dangers such as collisions with ships, entangle- ment in fishing gear, and intensive oil and gas development in feeding grounds, whales are increasingly threatened by industrial