 in the recent past, non-governmental organizations (ngos) have often been accused of inhibiting economic growth and wanting humanity to go back into the caves. ironically ngos, including wwf, feel that some governments are nowadays withdrawing into their own national caves out of short- term economic interests, rather than showing a willingness to address the obstacles that stand in the way of sustainable development and poverty eradication. a world of free trade without authorita- tive intergovernmental regulatory institutions will never be able to arrive at the global goals set by the earth summit in rio in 1992 and this year’s world summit on sustainable development (wssd) in johannesburg. according to wwf’s latest living planet report (see page 24), published in july, if current trends continue, humanity’s ecological footprint will increase to twice the earth’s regenerative capacity over the next 50 years. it is all too evident that it will be the poor of the world who bear the brunt of the resulting resource degradation. who would have predicted when the climate change convention was signed in rio that, within ten years, we would witness severe effects on many ecosystems, with melting ice masses in arctic regions threatening the lives of many indigenous peo- ples, coral bleaching and tropical storms wrecking the economy of coastal populations and many small island states, and drought and severe flooding causing misery and chaos, particularly in poverty-stricken areas? what, if anything, emphasizes more strongly the need for a multilateral system to address such global issues? disillusioned, we watched as the johannes- burg negotiations often resembled a “race to the bottom”, to the extent that we had to be lucky not to go back on the earlier commitments of the rio principles and the un millennium goals. governments should be the legitimate voice of the people they claim to represent and should recognize the great differences between nations, cultures, and economic circumstances. they should act in solidarity instead of in disarray and narrow self-interest. for this to happen, the world needs clear objectives, targets, and timetables. these could have emerged in johannesburg, where many companies – contrary to popular opinion – joined ngos in asking for a clear set of rules and operating principles to serve as the foundation for sustainable development. the outcome of the wssd calls into question whether such events can make any meaningful contribution, particularly to the implementation of existing agreements, when the dynamics of negotiation turn bold visions into the lowest common denominator. wwf’s disappointment with the official result of the summit, however, did not mean that the event was useless. an unprecedented diversity of positive new public-private partnerships and local initiatives was triggered. the most constructive outcome was that greater numbers of people now understand that the prospects of future generations depend on living in harmony with nature, and must be built on equity and the reduction of poverty. the contribution to sustainable development of many ngos has been significant and is often underrated. since rio, wwf has instigated market mechanisms such as the forest stewardship council (fsc) and the marine stewardship council (msc). we have forged important partnerships with corporations and helped establish environmental and social stan- dards within different branches of industry. we have worked together with intergovernmental institutions such as the united nations and the world bank and have supported regional government collabo- rations in resource management. we have also run many thousands of environmental and sustainable development projects funded voluntarily by millions of individual supporters. significant though these endeavours may be, they will not be enough – we need something innovative to take us further. in the run-up to johannesburg and during the summit itself, a number of governments stepped forward with progressive proposals and a willingness to show leadership that went beyond their own short-term economic interests. unfortunately, the intergovernmental process has not caught up with what is happening in the real world to the degree necessary for a truly coherent system which puts sustainable development at the heart of everything. however, wwf sees opportunities and a way forward that would not allow the laggards to jeopardize the prospects of the entire world community. we envisage new constellations of enlightened governments, intergovernmental institutions, environmental and development ngos, forward-looking companies, and creative thinkers who collectively can address those issues left unresolved in johannesburg. such alliances will engage in concrete sustainable development programmes, build momentum at regional and sub- regional levels, create new market instruments that promote sustainable development solutions, and forge new policy alliances which can overcome the current flaws in the multilateral system. wwf believes that a majority of the people of this planet share a common concern for future generations. as the pressure on natural resources rises and inequities sharpen, this will foster a further growth of ngos. people will look to leaders from all sectors of society who make a leap forward and commit to concrete solutions based on an ethical, long-term interest for the planet and its people. we shall pursue this agenda with determination and vigour.