 two prominent efforts in our work highlight this balance particularly well this year: tiger conservation and market transformation. species decline unquestionably persists as a central conservation concern — a reality that informs our current campaign to save wild tigers. while wwf has mounted many coordinated species efforts over the years, this is our most ambitious global campaign ever focused on a single species. we’ve set the bar high: double the wild tiger popu- lation by 2022. we’re engaged in an extraordinarily high-profile communications and fundraising effort to support antipoaching efforts on the ground, protect tiger habitat, and build the public and political will necessary to implement game-changing national strategies to save wild tigers. we’re working to tip global markets toward sustainability precisely to reduce pressure on the habitats of tigers and many other magnificent creatures. as often as not, species suffer because of the inexorable force of global commodity production and its impact upon their habitat. we know we have little hope of saving these species unless we combine our ongoing work in creating parks, building the capacity of communities, and strengthening governance and regulation with novel initiatives to change the trajectory of commodities like palm oil, sugar, soy and beef. this past year we advanced this cause by working to influence the purchasing patterns of the companies, consumers and banks most able to move 15 globally significant commodities toward sustainability. and we created solutions that will endure by devising lasting financial mechanisms to support them, whether through reduced costs, more stable supply chains, innovative trust funds, payments for ecosystem services, or agreements that compensate countries for keeping forests intact to reduce co2 emissions. all of these matter. the failure of the u.s. senate and the un to achieve hoped-for agreements on climate change underscores the imperative to achieve traction where we can. so we are pursuing innovative work with countries like indonesia, brazil, china and namibia, and also significantly expanding our work with progressive companies that are looking 50 years out and creating business models that will endure and also reduce their impact on the planet. we’ve created powerful tools the private sector can use — not only to track its own footprint but also to take action to minimize it. for us, that includes a long history of creating certification programs such as the msc (marine stewardship council) and fsc (forest stewardship council). we’ve also helped create roundtables to develop community production standards for major com- modities like cotton, soy and palm oil, and have forged transformational partnerships with companies like the coca-cola company and mars to push the envelope of best practices — and then pivot from those relationships to engage their customers and suppliers. the bottom line is we must mobilize all these tools to conserve those places fundamental to our future. fifteen years ago, paleontologist stephen jay gould told a group of us we should stop talking about “saving the earth.” he stretched out his arms and said if the history of our planet stretched from one fingertip to the other, then the time humanity has walked the earth has been nothing more than the shaving off the tip of a fingernail. he went on to make the point that the earth will ultimately survive whatever damage we inflict on it — but in the process will surely turn into some- thing less hospitable to us and all we care about. gould passed away several years later, but his words still ring true. we know our best arguments for conservation define the benefits that nature brings to people. when we save tigers, their forest habitats and related tourism income help sustain surrounding communities. when we create forest reserves, trees continue to sequester carbon and maintain local rainfall. reducing water use in the production of sugar enables watersheds to persist, and eliminating dynamite fishing in coral reefs preserves natural fish factories, the main source of protein for millions of people. at wwf, we make these arguments every day through our work on redd, marine protected areas, valuing ecosystem services, and incor- porating environmental attributes in the markets for global commodities. all these approaches embody the notion that saving nature yields enormous benefits for humanity. and while our love for the planet’s spectacular places and species animates everything we do, the reality is that we need nature more than nature needs us. we depend on it for our liveli- hoods, our health, our homes. so when we talk about saving forests, tigers and oceans, we’re really talking about saving ourselves.