 protecting the amazon in august, the creation of tumucumaque national park in the amazon – the world’s largest tropical forest protected area – came about as a direct result of wwf’s work. located in the brazilian state of amapá, and bordering french guiana and suriname, the new park covers more than 3.8 million hectares – almost the size of switzerland – and protects a significant part of the amazon forest. the borders of the park were defined by wwf and the brazilian environmental agency ibama, in agreement with the brazilian ministry of the environment. its creation is a significant step towards fulfilling the pledge made by president cardoso in 1998 to fully protect 41 million hectares – 10 per cent – of the brazilian amazon. this is the minimum needed, according to scientists, to secure a future for the region’s biodiversity. close to the kinabatangan wildlife sanctuary in malaysia, for example, wwf is working with local palm oil companies and communities to restore forest cover on either side of the kinabatangan river.this will create a corridor for endangered animals such as asian elephants and rhinos, improve water quality, support an ecotourism industry, and protect palm oil plantations from seasonal flooding. palm oil is used in a wide range of consumer products, such as margarine, lipstick, and detergent. globally, over 10 million hectares of land are now under plantation.the problem is that in major producing countries like malaysia, tropical forests are being replaced with palm oil plantations. wwf is working with the industry to reduce its impact, as well as encouraging buyers to purchase palm oil from plantations that have not been established at the expense of tropical forests. in january, switzerland’s largest retail chain, migros, in collaboration with wwf, became the first european retailer to make this commitment. * iucn–the world conservation union fighting forest crime the trade in illegal timber is a multimillion dollar industry taking place in over 70 countries.a new report by wwf, published in february, shows that at least 20 per cent of timber in russia is logged illegally. the report blames corruption by local officials as well as lack of funds to enforce controls on shipments. “illegal logging in the russian far east is highly profitable for both smugglers and the local mafia,” said anatoly kotlobay, wwf project manager. the trade is worth about us$150 million on the russian market and twice as much on the international market. unlicensed timber extraction is particularly hard on the very poor, as sources of local income and employment dry up, along with medicines and firewood. it is also responsible for the loss of vital habitat for wildlife such as the endangered amur leopard and siberian tiger, of which fewer than 500 remain. in may, representatives from g8 governments and key timber-producing countries met in london for a briefing organized by wwf on illegal logging and forest crime. wwf asks them to urgently put in place national purchasing policies which ensure that timber and forest products are acquired from legal and sustainably managed forests