 encompassing eight countries and at least as many seas, the arctic is one of the most important places on earth. the story of bristol bay, on the bering sea, is an example of our work here to safeguard a sustainable future for people and wildlife. for thousands of years, alaska natives have recognized bristol bay as a remarkably special place. with abundant fish, marine mammals and bird life, the bay remains critically important for both subsistence and commerce, boasting a rich fishing heritage that supports thousands of local people. consumers around the world also benefit from the bay’s bounty. if you’ve eaten wild sockeye salmon, chances are high that it came from bristol bay. every year 33 million sockeye salmon leave their ocean domain to swim upstream and spawn in the region’s rivers, making this the world’s largest run of sockeye salmon – a keystone species for the region’s rich and diverse marine, coastal and terrestrial ecosystems. these waters also support critically important nursery grounds for red king crab and pacific halibut. oil and gas exploration today, however, this place is threatened by plans for offshore oil and gas development. for almost two decades following the catastrophic 1989 exxon valdez oil spill in pristine prince william sound, bristol bay was protected from oil and gas development. the bush administration and congress removed that protection, and in 2007 the bay was newly available for development. according to a nationwide plan developed under president bush, a bristol bay lease sale for development could be conducted as early as 2011. scientists predict that, given bristol bay’s notorious winds, powerful seas, variable ice cover and cold temperatures, drilling here will result in at least one major oil spill and numerous smaller ones. with an alaska- based team, wwf is now at the center of a coordinated campaign to ensure that this never happens. local voices, national attention engaging local partners is an essential aspect of our work. wwf staff have been traveling to communities within the region, sharing information about plans for development as well as the potential impacts on bristol bay fish. local commercial fishermen and coastal residents are highly knowledgeable about what’s at stake. they speak passionately about the need to protect the bay and their way of life. to put bristol bay in the national spotlight, wwf has been bringing these important voices to washington, d.c., arranging meetings with congressional staff and media interviews that reach other americans who, as consumers of the bay’s bounty, have a stake in its future. one of the champions for bristol bay is keith colburn, captain of the crab fishing vessel the wizard and a celebrity on discovery channel’s deadliest catch series. in march of 2009, captain colburn took time from his fi shing schedule to help wwf get the word out about the threats of offshore oil development to bristol bay’s fisheries. in the medium to long term, however, considering the many other demands on public funds (health care, education, etc.), it is necessary to mobilize the private capital markets for redd. developing the carbon markets and other methods to attract a portion of the trillions of dollars of private capital would provide scalable and reliable fi nancing for redd – and help the forest countries create sustainable economic opportunities for their citizens while preserving the earth’s climate and rich natural forests. mobilizing the legal and commercial environments in forest countries to attract that redd capital will also help those countries and local forest communities attract sustainable investment in other sectors that will improve living standards and eradicate poverty. since april 2009, wwf has partnered with the alaska marine conservation council, amassing signatures from over 800 bristol bay fishermen opposed to offshore oil and gas development. when secretary of the interior ken salazar visited dillingham, alaska (a hub of bristol bay), wwf staff and local friends rallied nearly 200 people for a meeting in the school gymnasium. mr. salazar heard firsthand their strong opposition to offshore development. thanks to wwf’s international presence, we have engaged similarly effective spokesmen from norway, primarily barents sea fishermen whose livelihoods also have been threatened by offshore development. it’s just not worth the risk. many superlatives describe bristol bay, but perhaps most important is that this is one of those exceptionally rare places in the u.s. where the ecosystem is healthy enough to support an entire economy. the people who live here want to keep it that way. fisherman thomas tilden points out that bristol bay is the engine for the bering sea fishery, which is worth over $2 billion a year, and that drilling would bring in just $7.7 billion over 25 years. “it’s just not worth the risk,” he says.