 damaging dams a new wwf report said the dramatic decline in the world’s river species was a direct result of dam construction.the report, the impact of dams on life in rivers, showed that more than 250 species were affected, including the atlantic sturgeon,the siberian crane, and freshwater dolphins. dr biksham gujja, head of the wwf freshwater programme, said: “such a small study – of only 91 medium-sized dams – already indicates great species loss. a more panoramic view of dams worldwide would therefore indicate even more striking losses.” wwf used the report at the april meeting of the world commission on dams in south africa,which later issued a report on action points for future dams. there are some 42,000 large (above 15 metres) dams in the world, with many more planned. wwf believes that many of these dams are unnecessary, and that alternatives are available for meeting food and energy needs.assessments should determine whether dams are needed at all and, if so, they should use construction methods that allow species to move and breed. green danube in june, the governments of bulgaria, moldova, romania,and ukraine created a “green corridor for he danube”, the largest cross-border wetlands protected area in europe.the 600,000 hectares along the danube river include lakes, flooded forests, and meadows. in the last 100 years, more than 80 per cent wetlands on top of the world in india, wwf is seeking to list some spectacular high-altitude wetlands and lakes under the ramsar convention – the international mechanism for pro- tecting important wetlands. some of these wetlands, above 4,600 metres, are nesting grounds for highly endangered birds, such as the black-necked crane. they are also of great cultural and spiritual significance and are one of the least protected types of wetland in the world. the indian government recently announced that it will designate these areas, and nine others, for protection under the ramsar convention. lake chad summit wwf participated in the african heads of state summit on lake chad in july which led to commitments later in the year from five countries to conserve the lake and protect it under the ramsar convention. lake chad is africa’s fourth largest body of water and supports, directly or indirectly, the livelihoods of more than 20 million people. the lake has shrunk by 80 per cent since 1960 when it covered about 2.5 million hectares, primarily as a result of drought,climate change, and unsustainable water management.“the first step to turn the crisis around is to designate the lake a wetland of international importance,” said martin tchamba, conservation director of the wwf office in cameroon. “countries must also adapt legislation to ensure the long-term conservation of the lake chad basin.”