 many of my colleagues describe conservation as a living discipline; indeed it constantly evolves—sometimes by our hand and sometimes not—in response to shifting environmental realities. | but conservation also endures as a living discipline because it is inhabited by a magnificent collection of people. this collection includes individuals for whom it is their life’s work; communities that take an active role in pursuing sustainable solutions to feed and protect their members; and the leadership of sophisticated multinational institutions that consider and then create innovative solutions to the most vexing problems the world faces. for more than five decades, wwf has pushed the boundaries of what conservation “shouldȋ be. through it all, one thing has remained constant: we have the best people in the business. i’ve had the privilege of heading up strategy development for ngos several times, both with wwf and with the nature conservancy. and there is a moment in any planning process where you look up from crafting the most beautiful niche in a highly considered strategy for an organization about which you care deeply, and one thing becomes very clear: everything you want to achieve hinges on the talent you’re able to gather around you. as former us treasury secretary and passionate conservationist hank paulson once told me, “it all depends on having the right people in the right place.” for many of us in the nonprofit sector, our work is our calling. and for the right people, in the right place, it is a calling that can change the world. i think of tilak dhakal, who runs wwf’s community-based programs in nepal. i’ll never forget tilak’s reply when i asked him to tell me the story of his kidnapping by the maoists in the midst of doing his work: it was “which time" because he has been kidnapped more than once over the decades during which he has built deep, abiding relationships with communities across the terai arc, often covering large stretches of the himalayan region on foot as part of his work. with tilak’s support, these communities do something audacious: take a major, active role in the stewardship of their natural resources, including the nearby parks. working together, they are restoring forests and connecting protected areas and helping to catch poachers. these communities, these people, are part of one of the most successful wildlife conservation restoration projects in the world. the common wisdom holds that tilak’s abductions occurred because of his popularity among local communities and his success in organizing them for conservation. these abductions also reinforced another truism about conservation that often goes overlooked: the work can be extraordinarily dangerous. tilak’s bravery, and the great personal affection felt for him by so many, ultimately led to his freedom. he inspired the communities where he worked to raise money for his release, and he was returned to his home one week after being taken from us in 2005. the second kidnapping lasted one day. i first met tilak when i was part of a convoy ferrying a sedated tiger from chitwan national park to bardia national park, the largest and most pristine wilderness area in the terai, where we would release the tiger— making it the first wild tiger in nepal to be translocated. on the way home, we made our way back through many of the communities where tilak worked. he was greeted like a rock star every place we went. nepal just celebrated their third year of zero poaching—due, without question, in no small part to the fearlessness of the communities that tilak supports with his own wisdom and courage. equally important to the success of our work are individuals who operate in a different sphere altogether—a world away from our priority eco regions— in the corridors of institutions where important policies are crafted to make a difference. roberta elias, who advocates on behalf of ocean issues for wwf, certainly fits that mold, and is another of our great talents for whom conservation is a calling to change the world. roberta came to conservation very deliberately: after hearing her seventh-grade science teacher talk about the needs of the planet, she was inspired to do her part to help. so her parents encouraged her to first study something she loved—which she did, earning undergraduate degrees in biology and environmental studies before going on to yale for a master’s in environmental management— and then turn it into a career that mattered. after moving to washington, dc, roberta worked at nrdc before joining wwf as part of our conservation policy department. roberta currently focuses her efforts on delivering federal guidelines around illegal, unreported, and unregulated (iuu) fishing practices. to that end she has spent considerable time with us customs and border patrol officials, learning what they do, how illegal fishing impacts them, and what they need to do their jobs better. her fluency and passion on the topic have changed the outcome of key meetings—and when people have that kind of knowledge and can convey it in a way that’s compelling, it’s like gold. in part because of roberta’s work, as well as the leadership of key officials in the current administration, we are seeing some real breakthroughs in bringing transparency and traceability to seafood entering the us, and we are beginning to close our ports to illegal cargo. when people think about wwf, they often think about the panda logo. when i think about wwf, i think about our talent. that’s our calling card. our ability to develop unexpected solutions with others, and to bring these solutions to life, utterly relies on the tilaks and robertas of the world. their gifts—not only for imagining a different future, but also for doggedly building the deepest and most abiding relationships with people on the front lines—ground our work in reality and provide a platform for achieving real change. of course, tilak and roberta are just two of the thousands of wwf staffers working passionately around the world every day. this annual report is a testament to that work and to the brilliant, determined conservationists you support. the most important part of my job is to find these talented individuals, convince them to come to work at wwf, and then create an environment in which they can flourish—an environment where they have access to the resources and the people they need to get things done. and then i get out of the way.