 2007 was a watershed year for conservation. the award of the nobel peace prize to leaders in the fight against climate change reflected a perceptible surge in public, business and governmental concern. irrefutable scientific findings lent new urgency to worldwide efforts to counter a pending catastrophe that is moving faster and is more disruptive than previously imagined. the need for ingenuity and collaboration in tackling this threat to our future became clearer than ever. wwf has a history of delivering solid conservation results in many of the world's most biologically rich areas. the scale and complexity of the challenges the planet faces today require us to redouble our efforts and exploit the strengths of our global network in innovative ways to tackle loss of biodiversity, the deterioration of natural ecosystems and the overwhelming threat of global warming. we are leading cutting-edge research to understand how some of the world’s most biologically rich and economically important regions can adapt to climate change, while at the same time working to bring the countries of the world together to urgently reduce their greenhouse gas emissions, and engaging governments, corporations and communities in tackling one of the biggest sources of emissions – deforestation. in the pages that follow, you will find examples of wwf initiatives to conserve the world’s most extraordinary places and to lighten humanity’s footprint on the planet. in southeast asia (page 8), for example, we are working at the highest level to try to protect the world’s most diverse coral reefs – and help sustainably manage rich tuna fisheries. in the congo basin (page 11), likely site of the next gold rush for tropical timber, we are encouraging foresters and international companies to take a long-term view of managing precious resources on which local communities will continue to depend for their livelihoods – and which are home to the last populations of forest elephants and lowland gorillas. conservationists cannot hope to succeed alone. we have always needed the support of legislators and local communities. today, we also count on and are receiving indispensable support from enlightened business leaders. the potential of these collaborations, including new partnerships with coca- cola on water conservation and allianz on climate change (page 16), is enormous. never before have so many people been ready to act. i am confident that together we can meet the challenge of building a sustainable future.