 technology, like conservation, is a living discipline. and technological breakthroughs give us tools to employ in our quest to ensure a world where people and nature flourish. of course, all the technology in the world can’t replace conservation in its purest form: person to person, community driven, boots on the ground. technology is an enhancer and a multiplier, but it will never substitute for a human touch. luckily, that’s wwf’s specialty. but we’re always seeking new approaches that push conservation forward, and technology is a powerful partner in that process. in kenya’s maasai mara national reserve, rangers patrolling for poachers had been limited to what could be seen in daylight with the naked eye. now they can search for poachers 24 hours a day, from up to a mile away, thanks to heat-sensing cameras that alert them to vehicles and people attempting to enter or exit the park. these cameras, provided through wwf’s partnership with flir, a leading designer of thermal imaging infrared cameras, have been a game-changer. a successful tool for apprehending poachers, they have also become a deterrent because they are something poachers haven’t faced before. technology is particularly important to our understanding of the oceans. off costa rica’s cocos island, an underwater receiving device allows us to track endangered silky and hammerhead sharks to determine whether their migratory routes need protection. even 10 years ago, this type of monitoring would have been unimaginable. wwf has long been recognized for our corporate-sector partnerships, and the application of technology to our work has only strengthened those relationships. we work with companies like google, apple, and microsoft because we believe that the private sector is a highly underutilized partner in meeting challenges like deforestation, climate change, and species loss. as the technology we all consume daily changes rapidly, one thing we know is that our lives will remain intertwined with it. from buying clothes to ordering dinner, we rely on technology nearly every waking hour. but so do criminals— those who traffic in illegally obtained wildlife products like tiger parts or pangolin scales. they are obtaining and selling their ill-gotten goods online, on platforms we all use regularly. which is why wwf has partnered with more than 20 technology companies to create the global coalition to end wildlife trafficking online, an industry-wide approach to driving an 80% reduction in online wildlife trafficking by 2020. the magnificent creatures being presented for sale didn’t have the luxury of hiding online to avoid capture, and neither should the criminals who are hawking their parts. we believe technology can help turn awareness into action. we believe it can turn communities into stewards. and we believe technology can help save nature.