 1. arctic we partnered with the north pacific fishery management council to prohibit commercial fishing in nearly 200,000 square miles of u.s. waters in the beaufort and chukchi seas until adequate baseline data has been collected on the local marine environment and fisheries resources. 2. northern great plains as we progress in rebuilding america’s serengeti, the number of bison on american prairie reserve has topped our goal of 100, and we are working to double the herd size this winter with 100 new calves from elk island national park in canada. 3. mexico wwf, fundación carlos slim and the mexican government launched an initiative to establish the country as a global model for conservation. wwf contributed to mexico’s new climate change plan, which includes a 2050 goal of a 50 percent emissions reduction from 2000 levels. 4. galápagos over a three-year period wwf provided technical expertise to the galápagos national park service to develop the new fisheries management plan. approved this year, the plan pro- vides the framework for sustainable fi sheries management in the galápagos marine reserve. 5. amazon in addition to securing 6.2 million acres of new protected areas, we partnered with the nature conservancy and conservation international to create a decision-support system for the inter-american development bank to use as it identifi es and mitigates potential negative impacts of development projects. 6. namibia we increased the number of self-fi nancing conservation conservancies from 17 to 21. with $2 million from usaid, wwf launched a new, three-year program to expand our community-based conservation work across the southern african region. 7. congo basin wwf assisted six countries in developing plans in support of redd, reduced emissions from deforestation and forest degradation, in advance of the december climate negotiations in copenhagen. the government of the democratic republic of the congo pledged to create 32-37 million acres of new protected areas. 8. coastal east africa partnering with care, we launched a major initiative focus- ing on climate, development and the environment in coastal and terrestrial areas in tanzania and mozambique. our goal is to address escalating threats to the livelihoods of resource- dependent communities. 9. eastern himalayas wwf’s first-ever renewable energy carbon project, using biogas in nepal, has been registered with the gold standard foundation, creating an opportunity to trade certified carbon credits in the voluntary market. the revenue generated from the transaction will be reinvested to ensure the financial sustainabil- ity of the project. 10. borneo and sumatra the u.s. and indonesian governments signed a debt-for-nature swap that will reduce indonesia’s debt payments by nearly $30 million. indonesia will commit these funds to conserving sumatra’s tropical forests. wwf was a key advisor to indonesia on structuring the agreement. 11. coral triangle usaid awarded $35 million to wwf, the nature conservancy and conservation international to support six local governments in implementing their new regional plan of action, which will preserve marine habitats, improve livelihoods and ensure food supplies for reef-dependent people across the coral triangle.