 once considered inexhaustible, our oceans are now in a state of global crisis as more and more people compete for fewer and fewer fish. overfishing threatens coastal communities and the food security of the millions who rely on marine fish as an important source of protein. more than 70 per cent of the world’s commercial marine fish stocks are either fully exploited, overfished, or recovering from overfishing. yet the solutions are in our hands, because what we buy for dinner tonight can determine whether tomorrow’s generations will continue to enjoy the oceans’ riches. or not. getting fisheries in balance to protect species not everything caught in a fishing net makes it to the table. every day millions of creatures are caught in equipment intended for other species. modern fishing gear, intensively deployed and extremely powerful, is very efficient at catching fish – as well as anything else in its path. this “incidental” catch is called bycatch. all types of marine life, including whales, dolphins, sharks, seabirds, starfish, crabs, and turtles are killed as bycatch. every year, for example, over 300,000 whales, dolphins, and porpoises die in fishing nets, and over a quarter of a million threatened marine turtles are caught on longline hooks. turning the tide it is a monumental challenge, but we can turn the tide by persuading major seafood buyers to demand change, by demonstrating the viability of alternative fishing technology, and by encouraging fleet owners to pioneer different approaches, while lobbying hard for regulatory reforms. already our “smart gear” competition rewards innovative thinking from all over the world, with a us$25,000 award for ideas such as using strong magnets to repel sharks from longline hooks, or weighting hooks to sit at a depth of 120m, far below endangered turtles and albatross. and a wwf- sponsored programme in ecuador has seen a 90 per cent reduction of marine turtle bycatch by replacing traditional “j” shaped longline hooks with specially designed circle hooks. more msc-certified seafood = more sustainable fish the marine stewardship council (msc), co-founded by wwf in 1997, rewards sustainable and well-managed fisheries with their distinctive blue eco-label. by 2006, 21 fisheries had been certified against the msc’s standards and labelled to prove it. a further 30 are undergoing assessment. together they account for more than 6 per cent of global seafood catch and cover some of the world’s major fisheries. to date, over 100 major seafood buyers have pledged to purchase msc-certified seafood products, including large supermarket chains in france, germany, switzerland, and the uk. overall, there are currently around 450 msc-labelled fish products on sale in 26 countries – ranging from fresh, frozen, smoked, and canned fish to fish oil dietary supplements. world’s largest retailer sets a green precedent with an annual turnover larger than many nations' economies, wal-mart serves roughly 100 million people each week. now the global retail giant has committed to sourcing all fresh and frozen products in north american stores from msc-certified fisheries within five years. with guidance from wwf and partners, this decision to raise the bar for fish suppliers is just one example of wal-mart’s environmental commitment, and illustrates the power of business to influence widespread change.