 at the core of the conservation movement is a profound belief in the value of nature. from the economic to the aesthetic to the restorative and spiritual, nature’s value reveals itself in many ways, and all are integral to wwf’s work. the economic value of nature, particularly, must be considered in nearly everything we do—from trying to reduce pollution in the atmosphere to restoring degraded lands to combating wildlife crime. we also work hard to ensure that nature’s value influences the biggest decisions made by society. for example, guiding a company that harvests timber to modify its plans in order to conserve forests, save endangered species or maximize the sequestration of carbon in the trees. with a global population of more than 7 billion, the human forces of consumption and resource utilization will overwhelm the natural world if we don’t incorporate the economic value of nature into our decision-making processes. at wwf, we are heavily invested in the natural capital project, a science-based partnership with stanford university, the university of minnesota and the nature conservancy to develop tools to quantify the economic value of various natural resources and ecological processes—such as water filtration, the regulation of climate, and crop pollination. making sure these tools are used by governments and companies is one of our most important objectives. but of course nature’s value goes far beyond economics or markets or pricing schemes. the value of nature is in the glory of the bird’s song, and the sweep of land a family has called home for generations, and the sacred legends of forests or animals that are the heart and soul of a community. they must be accounted for as well, so we take special measures to save those things that are outside the traditional economy. we work to establish protected terrestrial and marine areas that might not have remarkable value in terms of market economics, but whose conservation is nonetheless critical to the health of natural ecosystems and the survival of species. we help governments design infrastructure that is considerate of its impact on natural surroundings. and we work to ensure that communities can uphold their sacred traditions without compromising already-reduced populations of tigers, elephants and rhinos. establishing the value of nature is important work. our task is challenging, and the results will not be immediate. ultimately, though, the fate of the planet and of the quality of individual lives depends on our success. and so wwf is committed to meeting this challenge through science-based innovation, broad-based outreach and the support of our friends and partners. if we value what nature gives us—clean air and water, food, livelihoods, health, comfort—we must work tirelessly for its conservation.