 wwf’s mission is to stop, and eventually reverse, the degradation of the planet’s natural environment and to build a future in which humans live in harmony with nature. over its 40-year history, wwf has grown into one of the world’s largest and most effective independent organizations dedicated to the conservation of nature. it has reached this status through a constant record of conservation achievements. today, wwf operates in nearly 100 countries, supported by some five million people worldwide. its initials and famous panda logo have become a powerful rallying point for those who care about the future of the planet and want to help shape it in a positive way. the organization’s success and reputation have been built around a factual, science-based approach to conservation, which focuses on six priority issues: forests, fresh water, oceans and coasts, threatened species, and the insidious threats of toxic chemicals and climate change. to underpin its work, wwf runs highly focused programmes based on these issues of global concern. each programme has identified conservation targets (summarized in the following pages) for the next ten years. to help with the delivery of these targets, short, high-profile campaigns, wherever possible involving the general public, are initiated. wwf runs some 1,200 projects around the world in any year. many of wwf’s 3,800 staff work at the front line of conservation, sometimes in difficult and dangerous conditions, helping to make maximum use of the approximately us$273 million that wwf spends annually on its global conservation work. on-the-ground projects are reinforced with policy work and campaigns, as well as education and local capacity building to help replicate conservation successes. saving the world’s special places recognizing that local conservation problems often have their roots in wider social and economic issues, which influence how people use and consume resources and affect the environment, wwf has adopted an approach which links field and advocacy work to address environmental problems within areas whose boundaries are defined by nature – what wwf terms “ecoregions”. these may be tropical forests or large areas of freshwater wetlands spanning one or more countries, or entire coral reef systems such as australia’s great barrier reef. wwf has identified some 200 such places – the “global 200 ecoregions” – which harbour most of the world’s remaining biological diversity, and which must be preserved if we are to leave a living planet for future generations. the organization has selected 77 of these areas to focus on and is working with partner organizations to develop action plans. ambitious, broad-scale, and integrated in nature, these plans combine environmental, economic, and social actions to conserve or restore the biodiversity of an entire ecoregion. gifts to the earth “gifts to the earth”, the highly successful conservation tool developed by wwf in 1996, continues to win commitments from governments, industry, and individuals to preserve the most significant parts of our natural heritage. by mid-2001, 66 gifts had been recognized by wwf. among them were new legislation in mauritania to protect the banc d’arguin – an area of shallow coastal waters and tidal mudflats of international importance for migratory waterbirds – and the commitment by turkey to increase the size of its protected areas by 50 per cent. communicating the message over the past year, wwf’s award-winning website – www.panda.org – has been further developed into an immensely powerful tool for awareness-raising and action. thousands of people are now using “panda passport” to register their concerns about conservation issues of the moment. by harnessing the views of so many people, wwf is able to bring pressure to bear on policy- and decision-makers to make a real difference. 4 campaigning for conservation the wwf network since its foundation as a charity under swiss law in 1961, wwf’s network of offices has grown steadily to cover most regions of the world. at the heart of the network is the international secretariat based in gland, switzerland. it identifies and monitors emerging conservation concerns, guides the development of wwf’s position on international issues, coordinates campaign, communications, and fundraising activities, manages the international conservation pro- gramme and policy work, and builds global partnerships. the wwf network contributes expertise and funding to wwf’s international conservation programme. activities range from practical field projects and scientific research to advising on environmental policy, promoting environmental education, and raising public understanding of environmental issues. two specialist offices, in brussels and washington, work to influence the policies and activities of the european union and institutions which deal with global economic issues, such as the world bank and the global environment facility (gef). in 2001, the number of wwf offices grew with the admission to the network of wwf-turkey, which previously had been one of five associates – independent non-governmental organizations (ngos) which work closely with wwf towards shared conservation objectives.