 as the world moves toward a global climate deal, many are standing on the sidelines waiting to see which way the wind will blow. at wwf, we’re in high gear to get effective action ... in the u.s. and around the world. comprehensive research confirms beyond any reasonable doubt that climate change is real and that its impacts are emerging all around us. we see it where we live and in the news: more frequent flooding downpours, warmer winters, intense coastal storms and other extraordinary weather conditions. these changes are the growing consequences of sharply rising average global temperatures that are fi rmly linked to the buildup of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. emissions already in the atmosphere likely will push global temperatures close to 1.5 degrees celsius above what they were two centuries ago. unless growth in greenhouse gas emissions is halted by the middle of this decade and sharply reduced by 2020, warming will far exceed that level, substantially increasing the risks of catastrophe, including widespread disruption of ecosystems. over the last two years, national governments have negotiated in pursuit of a treaty to reduce those risks. addressing the danger requires a binding international treaty. it must include specific commitments from the u.s. and other industrialized countries to sharply reduce their emissions. the agreement must provide incentives to slow deforestation and forest degradation, which account for 15 percent of global emissions. the state of climate action as the world moves toward a global climate deal, many are standing on the sidelines waiting to see which way the wind will blow. at wwf, we’re in high gear to get effective action ... in the u.s. and around the world. for their part, the larger developing countries must dramatically slow their emissions growth. also required are provisions for technology transfer and funding for efforts by developing countries to curb emissions and adapt to climate change. we produced a draft protocol to provide a benchmark for negotiators at the un climate change conference held in copenhagen in december 2009. in spite of our efforts, the nonbinding accord reached near the end of the negotiations in copenhagen fell short of what is needed – partly because the u.s. had not yet enacted climate legislation. during the coming year of negotiations leading up to the next annual meeting of negotiators in mexico, the administration and congress must make passage of climate and clean energy legislation a high priority. the legislation must rapidly ramp up efforts within the u.s. to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from fossil fuel use, support initiatives to stop deforestation, launch intensified efforts to assess and prepare for climate change impacts, and provide funding for efforts within developing countries to address climate change. the house of representatives already has passed comprehensive energy and climate legislation. now the senate must act. wwf has a special role to play in supporting the process because we see the impacts of climate change firsthand in our work, and because we can simultaneously advocate for action on climate change on four continents. here in the u.s., we’ve worked successfully to ensure that legislation includes crucial provisions that will protect the future of nature, and we have launched a public campaign to urge members of the senate to support climate legislation. as wwf presses for an international agreement and for legislation from congress, rapid progress must continue at every other level, from individuals and households to community organizations, and from governments to businesses. none of us can afford to wait for an international agreement to go into effect or for new legislation to be enacted by congress and implemented. wwf’s support for earth hour has helped catalyze action in communities and states around the world. on march 28, 2009, nearly 1 billion people worldwide, including 80 million americans, signaled their concern about climate change by turning off lights for one hour. more than 4,100 cities in 87 countries participated as iconic landmarks went dark in the largest global statement about climate change in history. through our climate savers program and other corporate collaborations, firms like coca-cola, hewlett-packard, ibm, nike and sony are addressing climate change in their own operations and are becoming more engaged in promoting action by other businesses and by governments. “when businesses look out 50 years and make the long-term investment decisions critical to their operations, they need less regulatory uncertainty,” said wwf president and ceo carter roberts. “that’s a major reason why many corporate leaders are now calling for u.s. climate legislation and an international agreement.” regardless of progress made in slowing climate change, one thing is clear: we already are committed to generations of disruptive consequences as a result of greenhouse gases we’ve emitted and will emit under even the most optimistic scenarios. just as we must reduce emissions with great urgency, so we must also assess the potential impacts of climate change and prepare for – and ultimately adapt to – those unfolding consequences. wwf is at the front line meeting those challenges, alerting the world to emerging impacts in ecosystems and taking early steps to address them. wwf has documented climate change impacts on wildlife ranging from the coral reefs of the pacific ocean’s coral triangle to the walruses of the arctic. our work with wildlife shows what’s at risk and helps us to avoid some of the disruptive consequences for ecosystems and human communities.