 oceans cover 70 per cent of the earth’s surface and play an essential part in the lives of human beings: worldwide about 200 million people depend on fish for their livelihood. yet the world’s oceans are in a critical state. ● on every ocean, every day, too many boats are chasing too few fish. new fisheries are being targeted to meet demand that is expected to increase by 40 per cent in the next decade. ● overfishing, destructive fishing practices, inadequate fisheries management, and habitat loss have pushed numbers of atlantic salmon, sharks, swordfish, and other species to their lowest levels in history. ● up to 80 per cent of the world’s marine protected areas are protected in name only, not actively managed at all. in response to the continued degradation of the world’s oceans and coasts, the wwf network supports a wide range of national and international marine projects – from protecting turtles in the caribbean, through dealing with oil spills in the northeast atlantic, to participation in various un assemblies. wwf’s marine programme is working to establish well-managed marine protected areas, conserve threatened marine species, support sustainable fishing, and to eliminate marine pollution. less than half of one per cent of the world’s seas lie within marine protected areas, and most of these are under-resourced and poorly managed.yet well-managed protected areas provide coastal communities with a valuable conservation tool, allowing fish the chance to breed and grow. in many cases, no-fishing zones within marine protected areas are small yet still provide vital ecological and economic benefits. much other work is being done on marine species conservation (e.g. for whales, turtles, and coral) and pollution.wwf has pushed for a global ban on tributyltin (tbt) which is used in anti-fouling paints on ships and is known to cause the decline of marine snails and oysters and to accumulate in marine mammals and birds. in germany, wwf is working with authorities, manufacturers, dockyards, and research institutions to test a number of ecological alternatives