 at wwf-us, we believe the size of the solution must match the size of the problem. so because our task is big — to save a planet, a world of life — we work big. we belong to a network of 30 wwf national organizations; we work in 100 countries; we partner with the biggest names in education, science and business; we identify the most urgent conservation challenges and go after them. and the results of our efforts must be no less than transformational. in the amazon, the first phase of our amazon region protected areas program has helped preserve nearly 80 million forest acres — an area approaching the size of california. in the coral triangle, we’re engaged in an unprecedented five-year, $40 million collaboration with the nature conservancy, conservation international, usaid, the global environment facility and others to help local governments develop more sustainable management of one of the world’s great coral reef systems. and in namibia, we’ve supported a new approach to protecting wildlife and habitat — communal conservancies — and have seen animal populations double. these are results that will endure. wwf’s conservation ethos holds that to succeed, we must also consider the impact of humanity’s growing footprint on the planet. so we aspire to transform global markets — such as soy and beef — that are eating away at the world’s glorious places through unsustainable practices and a voracious demand for natural resources. we do this by partnering with some of the world’s largest companies — like mars, the coca-cola company and procter & gamble — to change how they source and use resources like water and sugar to help tip markets toward sustainability. but perhaps the most urgent need for transformation comes from our rapidly and undeniably changing climate. over the past year we joined colleagues in the wwf network to fashion a global approach to reducing carbon pollution through an international treaty structure. while this effort fell short, we continue to pursue the ultimate goal of holding global warming to no more than 2 degrees centigrade, to protect humanity while also safeguarding the places and species we hold dear. wwf remains devoted to achieving transformational results, as the current state and trajectory of our planet demand. to do anything less would be a clear abdica- tion of our responsibilities as citizens of the world.