 the coral triangle – 5.7 million square kilometres of sparkling blue seas around indonesia, malaysia, papua new guinea, the philippines, the solomon islands and timor-leste – is comparable to the amazon rainforest in the breadth and importance of its biodiversity. it is home to over 3,000 different species of fish, 75 per cent of all coral species known to science, six of the world’s seven marine turtles, and a wide variety of sea mammals. the long-term viability of this vast marine resource, one of the planet’s most environmentally important and beautiful natural regions, is seriously threatened by various forms of commercial exploitation. the scale and speed of its decline calls for urgent action and new development strategies that take into account both the long-term interests of local people and of the environment. the coral triangle is the spawning ground for rich tuna fisheries that account for over 50 per cent of world consumption, yet local communities derive little economic benefit. uncontrolled and unsustainable catches by foreign fleets and pirates are putting the future of tuna as well as turtles and other species at risk. climate change is causing sea levels and temperatures to rise and reefs to bleach. on land, coastal development, tourism, deforestation, fish farming and other commercial activities are degrading the region’s natural beauty and diversity. success in meeting these challenges will require action by communities and national governments. it will also require regional cooperation – fisheries and other marine resources do not confine themselves to national boundaries. wwf’s coral triangle vision: a healthy, well-managed centre of marine biodiversity that is a source of food and livelihoods for generations to come. wwf is drawing on 20 years of experience in the region to address some of the most critical problems. it is investing in conservation activities that also have clear economic benefits. the highest priority is financial support for the effective management of marine protected areas to prevent further depletion of fish stocks and loss of biodiversity. we are working with the industry to encourage sustainable management of local reef fishing and control deep sea overfishing. at the other end of the supply chain, we are attempting to build demand for sustainably fished local catches in asian consumption markets. besides preventing further deterioration of fish stocks, the aim is to ensure that sufficient profit is retained in the region to encourage sound resource management. while recognizing the economic need for tourism, we are advising governments and the tourist industry on how to develop infrastructure and facilities that will have minimum environmental impact.